-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 I5p5soGuf4cwZbw3PJNfLgrhw2fRAYv3kQNNcD3fdY2kXqj6X/WSX1gVVvWGQEkL
 DnCXQqyEKUjmutPWPm6YIQ==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000912057-02-008220.txt : 20020414
<SEC-HEADER>0000912057-02-008220.hdr.sgml : 20020414
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000912057-02-008220
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K405
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20011130
FILED AS OF DATE:		20020228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000806085
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS & FLOTATION COMPANIES [6211]
		IRS NUMBER:				133216325
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1130

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K405
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-09466
		FILM NUMBER:		02563180

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		LEHMAN BROTHERS
		STREET 2:		3 WORLD FINANCIAL CENTER
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10285
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2125267000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		LEHMAN BROTHERS
		STREET 2:		3 WORLD FINANCIAL CENTER
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10285

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SHEARSON LEHMAN HUTTON HOLDINGS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19901017
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K405
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>a2071673z10-k405.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K405
<TEXT>
<Page>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                         ------------------------------
                                   FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)

<Table>
<C>              <S>
   /X/           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 2001
                                     OR

   / /           TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                      FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM TO

                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-9466
</Table>

                            ------------------------

                         LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC.

             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

<Table>
<S>                                      <C>
               DELAWARE                                13-3216325
    (State or other jurisdiction of       (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
    incorporation or organization)
          745 SEVENTH AVENUE
          NEW YORK, NEW YORK                              10019
    (Address of principal executive                    (Zip Code)
               offices)
</Table>

       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (212) 526-7000

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                   NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
TITLE OF EACH CLASS                                                 ON WHICH REGISTERED
- -------------------                                               -----------------------
<S>                                                               <C>
Common Stock, $.10 par value                                      New York Stock Exchange
                                                                     Pacific Exchange
Depositary Shares representing 5.94% Cumulative Preferred
  Stock, Series C                                                 New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares representing 5.67% Cumulative Preferred
  Stock, Series D                                                 New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares representing Fixed/Adjustable Rate
  Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E                            New York Stock Exchange
8% Trust Preferred Securities, Series I, of Subsidiary Trust
  (and Registrant's guarantee thereof)                            New York Stock Exchange
7.875% Trust Preferred Securities, Series J, of Subsidiary
  Trust (and Registrant's guarantee thereof)                      New York Stock Exchange
Dow Jones Internet Index Stock Upside Note Securities Due
  2004                                                            American Stock Exchange
10 Uncommon Values Index Basket Adjusting Structured Equity
  Securities Notes Due 2004                                       American Stock Exchange
10 Uncommon Values Index Basket Adjusting Structured Equity
  Securities Notes Series B, Due 2004                             American Stock Exchange
10 Uncommon Values Index Basket Adjusting Structured Equity
  Securities Notes Due 2003                                       American Stock Exchange
Notes due November 14, 2007-Performance Linked to Marsh &
  McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) Common Stock                     American Stock Exchange
Notes due November 14, 2007-Performance Linked to Pfizer
  Inc. (PFE) Common Stock                                         American Stock Exchange
8 3/4% Notes Due 2002                                             New York Stock Exchange
NASDAQ-100 Index 109% Minimum Redemption Stock Upside Note
  Securities Due April 26, 2004                                   American Stock Exchange
NASDAQ-100 Index Risk Adjusting Equity Range Securities Plus
  Notes Due January 24, 2003                                      American Stock Exchange
Prudential Research Universe Diversified Equity Notes Due
  December 29, 2004                                               American Stock Exchange
10 Uncommon Values Index Stock Upside Note Securities Notes
  Due July 3, 2004                                                American Stock Exchange
10 Uncommon Values Index Risk Adjusting Equity Range
  Securities Plus Notes Due July 3, 2003                          American Stock Exchange
Portfolio Risk Adjusting Equity Range Securities Notes Due
  August 14, 2003, Based Upon a Basket of Ten Stocks              American Stock Exchange
Prudential Research Universe Diversified Equity Notes Due
  July 2, 2006, Linked to a Basket of Healthcare Stocks           American Stock Exchange
Return Accelerated Portfolio Debt Securities Notes Due
  November 5, 2002                                                American Stock Exchange
8% Yield Enhanced Equity Linked Debt Securities Plus Due
  November 13, 2003, Based Upon a Basket of Five Technology
  Stocks                                                          American Stock Exchange
S&P 500 Index Stock Upside Note Securities Due December 26,
  2006                                                            American Stock Exchange
S&P 500 Index Stock Upside Note Securities Due February 5,
  2007                                                            American Stock Exchange
</Table>

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                                      NONE

    Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /X/: No / /

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K (Section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. /X/:

    The aggregate market value of the voting and nonvoting common equity held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant at January 31, 2002, was approximately
$14,873,500,000. For purposes of this information, the outstanding shares of
common stock owned by directors of the Registrant were deemed to be shares of
common stock held by affiliates. As of January 31, 2002, 236,999,678 shares of
the Registrant's Common Stock, $.10 par value per share, were issued and
outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

(1) Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders (the "2001
    Annual Report")--Incorporated in part in Parts I, II and IV.

(2) Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2002 Annual
    Meeting of Stockholders (the "Proxy Statement")--Incorporated in part in
    Parts III and IV.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<Page>
                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

    As used herein, "Holdings" or the "Registrant" means Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation, incorporated on December 29, 1983.
Holdings and its subsidiaries are collectively referred to as the "Company," the
"Firm" or "Lehman Brothers," and Lehman Brothers Inc., a Delaware corporation
and the principal subsidiary of Holdings, is referred to herein as "LBI."

    The Company is one of the leading global investment banks, serving
institutional, corporate, government and high-net-worth individual clients and
customers. Its executive offices are located at 745 Seventh Avenue, New York,
New York 10019, and its telephone number is (212) 526-7000.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

    Some of the statements contained in this report, including those relating to
the Company's strategy and other statements that are predictive in nature, that
depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or that include words such
as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates" and
similar expressions, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are not
historical facts but instead represent only the Firm's expectations, estimates
and projections regarding future events. These statements are not guarantees of
future performance and involve certain risks and uncertainties that are
difficult to predict, which may include market, credit or counterparty,
liquidity, legal and operational risks. Market and liquidity risks include
changes in interest and foreign exchange rates and securities and commodities
valuations, the availability and cost of capital and credit, changes in investor
sentiment, global economic and political trends and industry competition. Legal
risks include legislative and regulatory developments in the United States and
throughout the world. The Firm's actual results and financial condition may
differ, perhaps materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition
in any such forward-looking statements, and, accordingly, readers are cautioned
not to place undue reliance on such statements. For more information concerning
the risks and other factors that could affect the Firm's future results and
financial condition, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 38 - 57 of the 2001 Annual Report.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements,
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

LEHMAN BROTHERS

    Lehman Brothers is one of the leading global investment banks, serving
institutional, corporate, government and high-net-worth individual clients and
customers. The Company's worldwide headquarters in New York and regional
headquarters in London and Tokyo are complemented by offices in additional
locations in the United States, Europe, the Middle East, Latin America and the
Asia Pacific region. The Company is engaged primarily in providing financial
services. Other businesses in which the Company is engaged represent less than
10 percent of consolidated assets, revenues or pre-tax income.

    The Company's business includes capital raising for clients through
securities underwriting and direct placements, corporate finance and strategic
advisory services, private equity investments, securities sales and trading,
research, and the trading of foreign exchange and derivative products and
certain commodities. The Company acts as a market-maker in all major equity and
fixed income products in both the domestic and international markets. Lehman
Brothers is a member of all principal securities and commodities exchanges in
the United States, as well as the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc. ("NASD"), and holds memberships or associate memberships on
several principal international securities and commodities exchanges, including
the London, Tokyo, Hong Kong, Frankfurt, Paris and Milan stock exchanges.

    Lehman Brothers provides a full array of capital market products and
advisory services worldwide. Through the Company's investment banking, research,
trading, structuring and distribution capabilities in equity and fixed income
products, the Company continues its focus of building its client/customer
business
<Page>
model. These "customer flow" activities represent a majority of the Company's
revenues. In addition to its customer flow activities, the Company also takes
proprietary positions, the success of which is dependent on its ability to
anticipate economic and market trends. The Company believes its customer flow
orientation mitigates its overall revenue volatility.

    The Company operates in three business segments (each of which is described
below): Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Client Services. Financial
information concerning the Company for the fiscal years ended November 30, 2001,
November 30, 2000, and November 30, 1999, including the amount of net revenue
contributed by each segment in such periods, is set forth in the Consolidated
Financial Statements and the Notes thereto in the 2001 Annual Report and is
incorporated herein by reference. Information with respect to the Company's
operations by segment and net revenues by geographic area is set forth in
Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 91 - 92 of
the 2001 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

EVENTS OF SEPTEMBER 11

    Lehman Brothers' world headquarters and other facilities had occupied space
that was owned and leased in the World Financial Center and the World Trade
Center in downtown New York City. As a result of the terrorist attacks of
September 11, 2001, the World Financial Center offices were damaged and the
World Trade Center space was destroyed. The United States debt and equity
financial markets were temporarily closed. All Lehman Brothers employees
(approximately 6,400 persons) and operations in downtown Manhattan were
displaced. Key business activities and necessary support functions were
relocated to the Company's back-up facilities in Jersey City, New Jersey, and to
various other temporary sites. In November 2001, the Company purchased a new
1,000,000 square-foot office tower at 745 Seventh Avenue in New York, New York,
to serve as the Firm's new world headquarters. The Company began occupying the
new building in January 2002 and expects to have substantially occupied the
space by the summer of 2002. Also in the wake of September 11, the Company
leased additional office and data center space in Manhattan and in Jersey City.

    The Company has been informed that the facilities in the World Financial
Center complex can be repaired; however, the damage to many of the floors at
Three World Financial Center ("3WFC"), which is owned jointly with American
Express Company, is significant. A repair and remediation plan is currently
underway, although a completion date has not been finalized. As a result, the
Company is currently evaluating its space needs and exploring its alternatives
with respect to 3WFC and the other downtown New York facilities. Lehman Brothers
has significant levels of insurance in place to cover losses resulting from the
terrorist attack, including a policy covering damage to the core and shell of
3WFC and a separate policy covering the property damage to the World Trade
Center and World Financial Center facilities, losses resulting from business
interruption and extra expenses associated with the Company's relocation to, and
occupancy of, the temporary facilities.

    During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, Lehman Brothers recognized a
pretax special charge of $127 million ($71 million after-tax) associated with
the net losses (after offsetting estimated insurance recoveries) stemming from
the events of September 11. The charge does not reflect any loss resulting from
the damage to the core and shell of 3WFC, as this amount is not yet known.
However, the Company believes that any loss will be fully recoverable under the
Company's insurance policy.

    The displacement and relocation of the Company's New York workforce, the
closure of markets for certain periods following the terrorist attack and other
issues directly related to the September 11 tragedy have negatively impacted the
Company's business. The Company is in the process of pursuing a business
interruption claim with its insurance carriers for lost revenue and related
damages. As of November 30, 2001, the Company has not given any accounting
recognition to the anticipated business interruption recovery.

                                       2
<Page>
    For more information concerning the effects of September 11, the special
charge and the Firm's facilities, see Item 2, Properties, on pages 9 - 10 of
this report; "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" on pages 38 - 57 of the 2001 Annual Report; and Note 2 of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 69 - 70 of the 2001
Annual Report.

INVESTMENT BANKING

    Lehman Brothers' Investment Banking professionals are responsible for
developing and maintaining relationships with issuer clients, gaining a thorough
understanding of their specific needs and bringing together the full resources
of Lehman Brothers to accomplish their financial objectives. Investment Banking
is organized into industry, geographic and product coverage groups, enabling
individual bankers to develop specific expertise in particular industries and
markets. Industry coverage groups include Communications & Media,
Consumer/Retailing, Financial Institutions, Financial Sponsors, Healthcare,
Industrial, Natural Resources, Power, Real Estate and Technology. Where
appropriate, specialized product groups are partnered with the global industry
and geographic groups to provide tailor-made solutions for Lehman Brothers'
clients. These product groups include Equity Capital Markets, which consists of
equity and equity-related securities and derivatives, Fixed Income Capital
Markets, which incorporates expertise in syndicate, liability management,
derivatives, private placements, high yield debt and bank loan syndication, and
Mergers and Acquisitions/Strategic Advisory Services. Geographically, Lehman
Brothers maintains investment banking offices in six cities in the U.S. and in
twenty-one cities in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Latin America. The high
degree of integration between the Company's industry, product and geographic
groups has allowed Lehman Brothers to become a leading source of one-stop
financial solutions for its global clients.

    MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS/STRATEGIC ADVISORY.  Lehman Brothers has a long
history of providing strategic advisory services to corporate, institutional and
government clients around the world on a wide range of financial matters,
including mergers and acquisitions, restructurings and spin-offs, targeted stock
transactions, share repurchase strategies, government privatization programs,
takeover defenses and tax optimization strategies.

    UNDERWRITING.  The Company is a leading underwriter of initial and other
public and private offerings of equity and fixed income securities, including
listed and over-the-counter securities, government and agency securities and
mortgage- and asset-backed securities.

CAPITAL MARKETS

    Lehman Brothers combines the skills from the sales, trading and research
areas of its Equities and Fixed Income Divisions to serve the financial needs of
the Company's clients and customers. This integrated approach enables Lehman
Brothers to structure and execute global transactions for clients and to provide
worldwide liquidity in marketable securities.

    EQUITIES

    The Equities group is responsible for the Company's equity operations and
all dollar and non-dollar equity and equity-related products worldwide. These
products include listed and over-the-counter securities, American Depositary
Receipts, convertibles, options, warrants and derivatives.

    EQUITY CASH PRODUCTS.  Lehman Brothers makes markets in equity and
equity-related securities and executes block trades on behalf of clients and
customers. The Company participates in the global equity and equity-related
markets in all major currencies through its worldwide presence and membership in
major stock exchanges, including, among others, those in New York, London,
Tokyo, Hong Kong, Frankfurt, Paris and Milan.

                                       3
<Page>
    EQUITY DERIVATIVES.  Lehman Brothers offers equity derivative capabilities
across a wide spectrum of products and currencies, including domestic and
international portfolio trading, listed options and futures and over-the-counter
derivatives. The Firm's equity derivatives business is organized into two major
product areas: a global volatility business, encompassing options-related
products, and a global portfolio trading business that specializes in
agency/risk baskets and other structured products.

    EQUITY FINANCE.  Lehman Brothers maintains an integrated Equity Financing
and Prime Broker business to provide liquidity to its clients and customers and
supply a source of secured financing for the Firm. Equity Financing provides
financing in all markets on a margin basis for customer purchases of equities
and other capital markets products as well as securities lending and
short-selling facilitation. The Prime Broker business also engages in full
operations, clearing and processing services for that unit's customers.

    ARBITRAGE.  Lehman Brothers engages in a variety of arbitrage activities
including "riskless" arbitrage, where the Company seeks to benefit from
temporary price discrepancies that occur when a security is traded in two or
more markets, and "risk" arbitrage activities, which involve the purchase of
securities at discounts from the expected values that would be realized if
certain proposed or anticipated corporate transactions (such as mergers,
acquisitions, recapitalizations, exchange offers, reorganizations, bankruptcies,
liquidations or spin-offs) were to occur. Lehman Brothers' arbitrage activities
benefit from the Company's presence in the global capital markets, access to
advanced information technology, in-depth market research, proprietary risk
management tools and general experience in assessing rapidly changing market
conditions.

    FIXED INCOME

    Lehman Brothers actively participates in all key fixed income markets
worldwide and maintains a 24-hour trading presence in global fixed income
securities. The Company is a preeminent market-maker in new issue and other
fixed income securities.

    Fixed Income businesses include the following:

    GOVERNMENT AND AGENCY OBLIGATIONS.  Lehman Brothers is one of the leading
primary dealers in U.S. government securities, as designated by the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, participating in the underwriting and market-making of
U.S. Treasury bills, notes and bonds, and securities of federal agencies. The
Company is also a market-maker in the government securities of all G7 countries,
and participates in other major European and Asian government bond markets.

    CORPORATE DEBT SECURITIES.  Lehman Brothers makes markets in fixed and
floating rate investment grade debt worldwide. The Company is also a major
participant in the preferred stock market, managing numerous offerings of
long-term and perpetual preferreds and auction rate securities.

    HIGH YIELD SECURITIES AND LEVERAGED BANK LOANS.  The Company also makes
markets in non-investment grade debt securities and bank loans. Lehman Brothers
provides "one-stop" leveraged financing solutions for corporate and financial
acquirers and high yield issuers, including multi-tranche, multi-product
acquisition financing. The Company remains one of the leading investment banks
in the syndication of leveraged loans.

    MONEY MARKET PRODUCTS.  Lehman Brothers holds leading market positions in
the origination and distribution of medium-term notes and commercial paper. The
Company is an appointed dealer or agent for numerous active commercial paper and
medium-term note programs on behalf of companies and government agencies
worldwide.

    MORTGAGE AND ASSET-BACKED SECURITIES.  The Company is a leading underwriter
of and market-maker in residential and commercial mortgage- and asset-backed
securities and is active in all areas of secured

                                       4
<Page>
lending, structured finance and securitized products. Lehman Brothers
underwrites and makes markets in the full range of U.S. agency-backed mortgage
products, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities and whole loan
products. It is a leader in the global market for mortgage and asset-backed
securities, leases, mortgages, multi-family financing and commercial loans. The
Company also originates mortgage loans directly through its subsidiary savings
bank, Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB. In addition, Lehman Brothers engages in select
investments in commercial and residential properties.

    MUNICIPAL AND TAX-EXEMPT SECURITIES.  Lehman Brothers is a major dealer in
municipal and tax-exempt securities, including general obligation and revenue
bonds, notes issued by states, counties, cities and state and local governmental
agencies, municipal leases, tax-exempt commercial paper and put bonds.

    FINANCING.  The Company's Financing Unit engages in three primary functions:
managing the Company's matched book activities, supplying secured financing to
customers, and providing funding for the Company's activities. Matched book
funding involves borrowing and lending cash on a short-term basis to
institutional customers collateralized by marketable securities, typically
government or government agency securities. The Company enters into these
agreements in various currencies and seeks to generate profits from the
difference between interest earned and interest paid. The Financing Unit works
with the Company's institutional sales force to identify customers that have
cash to invest and/or securities to pledge to meet the financing and investment
objectives of the Company and its customers. Financing also coordinates with the
Company's Treasury area to provide collateralized financing for a large portion
of the Company's securities and other financial instruments owned. In addition
to its activities on behalf of its U.S. clients and customers, the Company is a
major participant in the European and Asian repurchase agreement markets,
providing secured financing for the Firm's customers in those regions.

    FIXED INCOME DERIVATIVES.  The Company offers a broad range of derivative,
interest rate and credit products and services. Derivatives professionals are
integrated into all of the Company's fixed income areas in response to the
worldwide convergence of the cash and derivative markets.

    FOREIGN EXCHANGE.  Lehman Brothers' global foreign exchange operations
provide market access and liquidity in all currencies for spot, forward and
over-the-counter options markets around the clock. Lehman Brothers offers its
customers superior execution, market intelligence, analysis and hedging
capabilities, utilizing foreign exchange as well as foreign exchange options and
derivatives. Lehman Brothers also provides advisory services to central banks,
corporations and investors worldwide, structuring innovative products to fit
their specific needs. The Firm makes extensive use of its global macroeconomics
research to advise clients on the appropriate strategies to minimize interest
rate and currency risk.

    GLOBAL DISTRIBUTION

    Lehman Brothers' institutional sales organizations encompass distinct global
sales forces that have been integrated into the Fixed Income and Equities
businesses to provide investors with the full array of products and research
offered by the Firm. Lehman Brothers has a strategic alliance with Fidelity
Investments that provides the Firm access to Fidelity's retail brokerage
customers and a distribution channel for new issue and secondary products and
research to individual investors on-line.

    EQUITY SALES.  Lehman Brothers' institutional Equity sales force provides an
extensive range of services to institutional investors through locations in the
U.S., Europe and Asia. The Equity sales organization focuses on developing
long-term relationships though a comprehensive understanding of customers'
investment objectives, while providing proficient execution and consistent
liquidity in a wide range of global equity securities and derivatives.

    FIXED INCOME SALES.  Lehman Brothers' Fixed Income sales force is one of the
most productive in the industry, serving the investing and liquidity needs of
major institutional investors. Employing a relationship

                                       5
<Page>
management approach that provides superior information flow and product
opportunities for the Firm's customers, the Fixed Income sales organization
covers the major share of the buying power in the global fixed income markets.

    RESEARCH

    EQUITY RESEARCH.  The Equity Research department is integrated with the
Company's sales and trading activities. To ensure in-depth expertise within
various markets, Equity Research has established regional teams on a worldwide
basis that are staffed with industry and strategy specialists.

    FIXED INCOME RESEARCH.  Fixed Income research at Lehman Brothers encompasses
the full range of research disciplines: quantitative, economic, strategic,
credit, relative value and market-specific analysis. Fixed Income research is
integrated with the Company's sales and trading activities. The department's
specialists provide expertise in U.S., European and Asian government and agency
securities, derivatives, sovereign issues, corporate securities, high yield,
asset- and mortgage-backed securities, emerging market debt and municipal
securities.

CLIENT SERVICES

    Client Services includes the Company's Private Client Services group, a
retail-based organization that primarily serves the investment needs of wealthy
individuals, and its Private Equity Division, which manages assets through a
series of private equity funds.

    PRIVATE CLIENT SERVICES

    The Company's Private Client Services group has a staff of approximately
980, including approximately 475 investment representatives who serve the
investment needs of private investors with substantial assets as well as over
2,200 mid-sized institutional accounts worldwide. The group has a global
presence, with investment representatives located in 18 offices worldwide. Among
other services, investment professionals provide their clients with direct
access to fixed income, equity, foreign exchange and derivative products, as
well as the Firm's research and execution capabilities, thereby serving as a
valuable extension of the Firm's institutional sales force.

    The Firm also provides asset management services, including Investment
Consulting Services, a wrap-fee series of third party managed products,
management of multiple manager funds onshore and offshore and a managed futures
advisory business. The Firm also has dealer agreements with a large number of
mutual fund families.

    PRIVATE EQUITY

    The Company currently has over $5.6 billion in Private Equity assets under
management, primarily in three asset classes: Merchant Banking, Venture Capital
and Real Estate. The primary goal of each asset class is to make investments
that provide attractive returns to investors, including institutions,
high-net-worth individuals, the Firm and certain employees of the Firm.

    MERCHANT BANKING.  Lehman Brothers' merchant banking activities include
making principal investments in established companies worldwide, often in
partnership with clients of the Firm, and managing these investments until they
are realized. Merchant banking seeks to partner with proven operating teams that
have a compelling business strategy or vision, with the aim of creating
long-term value for investors.

    VENTURE CAPITAL.  Lehman Brothers manages investments in venture capital
focused on technology, communications and healthcare companies. The primary
investment objective of the Firm's venture capital investment activities is to
make growth-oriented equity or equity-related investments in privately held

                                       6
<Page>
companies. Venture capital investments focus on companies capable of turning
innovative technology and management solutions into successful businesses.

    REAL ESTATE.  Lehman Brothers' Real Estate Fund is focused on making equity
investments in properties, real estate companies and related service businesses.

    Commitments for all of the Firm's private equity funds are raised in private
placements not requiring registration under the Securities Act of 1933.

TECHNOLOGY AND E-COMMERCE

    Lehman Brothers is committed to maintaining a technology platform to deliver
a full range of capital markets information and services to its institutional
and high-net-worth client base. The Firm-wide e-Commerce organization, which
brings together senior management from all of the Firm's global business areas,
has developed the Firm's overall e-commerce strategy, approves all e-commerce
investments and provides a forum to share e-commerce knowledge and new
developments across the Firm's businesses and geographies. The Firm's e-commerce
strategy focuses on client and markets connectivity, content and strategic
ventures. Lehman Brothers has an integrated client and employee web site,
LehmanLive, which serves as a complete suite of services, including pre-trade
(research and analytics), trade and post-trade (clearing and settlement
information, risk management and prime brokerage) information and employee
applications. LehmanLive was an important element in the Firm's recovery after
the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Lehman Brothers has made many
strategic investments and is a participant in a number of institutional trading
networks in the U.S., Europe and Asia. Notable investments include TradeWeb,
MarketAxess and SecuritiesHub in Fixed Income, and TheMarkets.com, EquiLend,
Redi/Arca and NYFIX Millennium in Equities. Additionally, Lehman Brothers has
supported the global expansion of NASDAQ with an investment in its U.S.,
European and Japanese ventures.

CORPORATE

    The Company's Corporate division provides support to its businesses through
the processing of certain securities and commodities transactions; receipt,
identification and delivery of funds and securities; safeguarding of customers'
securities; risk management; and compliance with regulatory and legal
requirements. In addition, this staff is responsible for technology
infrastructure and systems development, treasury operations, financial control
and analysis, tax planning and compliance, internal audit, expense management,
career development and recruiting and other support functions.

RISK MANAGEMENT

    As a leading global investment banking company, risk is an inherent part of
the Company's businesses. Global markets, by their nature, are prone to
uncertainty and subject participants to a variety of risks. Lehman Brothers has
developed policies and procedures designed to identify, measure and monitor each
of the risks involved in its trading, brokerage and investment banking
activities on a global basis. The principal risks of Lehman Brothers are market,
credit, liquidity, legal and operational risks. As part of the Company's
customer-flow activities, Lehman Brothers takes proprietary positions in
interest rates, foreign exchange and various securities, derivatives and
commodities. Although the Company seeks to mitigate risk associated with such
positions through hedging activities, consistent with its expectations of future
events, it is subject to the risk that actual market events may differ from the
Company's expectations, which may result in losses associated with such
positions.

    Lehman Brothers has developed a control infrastructure to monitor and manage
each type of risk on a global basis throughout the Company. A full description
of the Firm's Risk Management procedures is contained in "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Risk
Management" on pages 53 - 55 of the 2001 Annual Report, and is incorporated
herein by reference.

                                       7
<Page>
COMPETITION

    All aspects of the Company's business are highly competitive. The Company
competes in domestic and international markets directly with numerous other
brokers and dealers in securities and commodities, including traditional and
online securities brokerage firms, investment banking firms, investment advisors
and certain commercial banks and, indirectly for investment funds, with
insurance companies and others.

    The financial services industry has become considerably more concentrated as
numerous securities firms have been acquired by or merged into other firms.
These developments have increased competition from other firms, many of which
have significantly greater equity capital than the Company. Legislative and
regulatory changes in the United States allow commercial banks to enter
businesses previously limited to investment banks, and several combinations
between commercial banks and investment banks have occurred, which has further
increased competition.

REGULATION

    The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive
regulation under both federal and state laws. LBI is registered as a
broker-dealer, and LBI and certain other subsidiaries of Holdings are registered
as investment advisors, with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC")
and as such are subject to regulation by the SEC and by self-regulatory
organizations, principally the NASD, national securities exchanges such as the
New York Stock Exchange (which has been designated by the SEC as LBI's primary
regulator) and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. Securities firms are
also subject to regulation by state securities administrators in those states in
which they conduct business. LBI is a registered broker-dealer in all 50 states,
the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The SEC,
self-regulatory organizations and state securities commissions may conduct
administrative proceedings, which may result in censure, fine, the issuance of
cease-and-desist orders or suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer or an
investment advisor, its officers or employees.

    LBI is also registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the
"CFTC") as a futures commission merchant and is subject to regulation as such by
the CFTC and various domestic boards of trade and other commodity exchanges. The
Company's U.S. commodity futures and options business is also regulated by the
National Futures Association, a not-for-profit membership corporation which has
been designated as a registered futures association by the CFTC.

    The Company does business in the international fixed income and equity
markets and undertakes international investment banking activities, principally
through its regional headquarters in London and Tokyo. The U.K. Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000 (the "FSMA") governs all aspects of the United
Kingdom investment business, including regulatory capital, sales and trading
practices, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, record keeping,
margin practices and procedures, approval standards for individuals, periodic
reporting and settlement procedures. Pursuant to the FSMA, certain subsidiaries
of Holdings are subject to regulations promulgated and administered by the
Financial Services Authority.

    Holdings' subsidiary, Lehman Brothers Japan Inc., is a licensed securities
company in Japan and a member of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Limited, the Osaka
Stock Exchange Limited and the Tokyo Financial Futures Exchange and, as such, is
regulated by the Financial Services Agency, the Japan Securities Dealers
Association and such exchanges.

    Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB, the Company's thrift subsidiary, is regulated by
the Office of Thrift Supervision. Lehman Brothers Bankhaus A.G. is regulated by
the German Federal Banking Authority.

    The Company believes that it is in material compliance with the regulations
described herein.

                                       8
<Page>
CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

    LBI, Lehman Brothers International (Europe), the Tokyo branch of Lehman
Brothers Japan Inc. and others of Holdings' subsidiaries are subject to various
securities, commodities and banking regulations and capital adequacy
requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the
countries in which they operate. Reference is made to Note 10 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 80 of the 2001 Annual Report, which is
incorporated herein by reference.

EMPLOYEES

    As of November 30, 2001, the Company employed approximately 13,100 persons,
including 8,500 in North America and 4,600 internationally. The Company
considers its relationship with its employees to be good.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

    As a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, Lehman Brothers
was forced to relocate its employees and operations from downtown Manhattan. In
November 2001 the Company purchased a new 1,000,000 square-foot office tower at
745 Seventh Avenue in New York City. This building is the Firm's new world
headquarters. The Company began occupying the new building in January 2002 and
expects to have substantially occupied the space by the summer of 2002.

    In October 2001, the Company leased approximately 437,000 square feet of
office space at 399 Park Avenue and 56,000 square feet of data center space at
another location in New York City, each with a term extending until 2016.

    The Company's former world headquarters at Three World Financial Center in
downtown New York City, occupying approximately 1.1 million square feet, which
the Company owns under a tenancy-in-common arrangement with American Express
Company, suffered significant damage in the terrorist attacks. A repair and
remediation plan is currently underway, although a completion date has not been
finalized.

    The Company had leased approximately 160,000 square feet of space at One
World Trade Center in New York City, which was destroyed in the September 11
attacks. The Company exercised its right to terminate this lease effective
February 2002. This lease was due to expire in 2015.

    Lehman Brothers also leases space at One World Financial Center in the same
office complex as Three World Financial Center. This space suffered some damage
in the attacks and is currently unoccupied. Prior to September 11, the Company
had occupied 100,000 square feet of the One World Financial Center space, which
was scheduled ultimately to consist of approximately 715,000 square feet.
Approximately 95,000 square feet were to be occupied during 2001 after
September 11, and 520,000 square feet were to be occupied in stages thereafter.
The lease terms at One World Financial Center expire at various dates from
December 2015 through 2025, with the exception of a lease for 148,000 square
feet, which expires in 2006.

    The Company is currently evaluating its space needs and exploring its
alternatives with respect to its downtown New York City facilities.

    In September 2001, Lehman Brothers assumed a 409,000 square foot lease for
additional office space in Jersey City, New Jersey, with a term extending until
2016. Approximately 256,000 square feet of the premises have been subleased to a
third-party tenant. The Company also leases approximately 400,000 square feet of
office space in a nearby building (the "Operations Center"), of which
approximately 32,000 square feet have been subleased to a third-party tenant.
The Operations Center is used by systems, operations and certain administrative
personnel. The lease term expires in 2011.

                                       9
<Page>
    The Company's European headquarters in London, England, occupy approximately
450,000 square feet of leased office space in the Broadgate complex. These
leases expire at various dates to 2017. Approximately 60,000 square feet have
been subleased to two third-party tenants. In March 2001, the Company agreed to
lease up to 1,000,000 square feet of space in a new tower at the Canary Wharf
development, to the east of the City of London. The Company expects to relocate
to this location during late 2003.

    The Company's Asian headquarters occupy approximately 100,000 square feet of
leased office space in the ARK Mori Building in central Tokyo, Japan. The Tokyo
lease expires in December 2002.

    Facilities occupied by the Company and its subsidiaries (or to be occupied
as described above) are believed to be adequate for the purposes for which they
are or are to be used, and the occupied facilities are well maintained.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    The Company is involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and arbitration
proceedings concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of its
business. Such proceedings include actions brought against the Company and
others with respect to transactions in which the Company acted as an underwriter
or financial advisor, actions arising out of the Company's activities as a
broker or dealer in securities and commodities and actions brought on behalf of
various classes of claimants against many securities and commodities firms,
including the Company.

    Although there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome, the Company
generally has denied, or believes it has a meritorious defense and will deny,
liability in all significant cases pending against it including the matters
described below, and it intends to defend vigorously each such case. Based on
information currently available and established reserves, the Company believes
that the eventual outcome of the actions against it, including the matters
described below, will not, in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on
the consolidated financial position of the Company but may be material to the
Company's operating results for any particular period, depending on the level of
the Company's income for such period.

LEHMAN BROTHERS COMMERCIAL CORPORATION AND LEHMAN BROTHERS SPECIAL
  FINANCING INC. V. MINMETALS INTERNATIONAL NON-FERROUS METALS TRADING COMPANY

    On November 15, 1994, a Holdings subsidiary, Lehman Brothers Commercial
Corporation ("LBCC"), and an LBI subsidiary, Lehman Brothers Special
Financing Inc. ("LBSF"), commenced an action against Minmetals International
Non-Ferrous Metals Trading Company ("Minmetals") and China National Metals and
Minerals Import and Export Company ("CNM") in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York alleging breach of contract against
Minmetals and breach of guarantee against CNM. The litigation arose from the
refusal by Minmetals and CNM to honor their obligations with respect to certain
foreign exchange and swap transactions. LBCC and LBSF seek to recover
approximately $52.5 million from Minmetals and/or CNM. Minmetals filed
counterclaims against Lehman entities based on violations of federal securities
and commodities laws and rules and theories of fraud, breach of fiduciary duty
and conversion. A non-jury trial began on December 10, 2001, and testimony was
completed on February 15, 2002. The court has the case under submission.

AIA HOLDING SA ET AL. V. LEHMAN BROTHERS INC. AND BEAR STEARNS & CO., INC.

    On July 9, 1997, LBI was served with a complaint in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New York in which 277 named
plaintiffs assert 24 causes of action against LBI and Bear Stearns & Co., Inc.
The amount of damages claimed is unspecified. The claims arise from the
activities of an individual named Ahmad Daouk, who was employed by an
introducing broker which introduced accounts to LBI between 1988 and 1992. Daouk
allegedly perpetrated a fraud upon the claimants, who are

                                       10
<Page>
mostly investors of Middle Eastern origin, and the complaint alleges that LBI
breached various contractual and common law duties owed to the investors. On
March 27, 1998, the District Court dismissed without prejudice 18 of the 24
counts pleaded in the complaint. On July 3, 1998, the plaintiffs served their
First Amended Complaint containing 18 causes of action against LBI and/or Bear
Stearns. The court has ordered the plaintiffs divided into 14 groups of 20 for
trial purposes. No trial date has been set.

HAROLD GILLET, ET AL. V. GOLDMAN SACHS & CO., ET AL.; YAKOV PRAGER, ET AL. V.
  GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO., ET AL.; DAVID HOLZMAN, ET AL. V. GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.,
  ET AL.

    Beginning in November 1998, three class actions were filed in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York against in excess of
25 underwriters of initial public offering ("IPO") securities, including LBI.
Plaintiffs, alleged purchasers of securities issued in certain IPOs, seek
compensatory and injunctive relief for alleged violations of the antitrust laws
based on the theory that the defendants fixed and maintained fees for
underwriting certain IPO securities at supra-competitive levels. On March 15,
1999, plaintiffs filed a Consolidated Amended Complaint. On April 29, 1999, LBI
and the other defendants moved to dismiss the Consolidated Amended Complaint. By
order dated November 17, 1999, a fourth purported class action, also brought on
behalf of purchasers, was consolidated with the existing actions.

    By memorandum and order dated February 9, 2001 (the "Order"), the court
granted defendants' motion to dismiss the Consolidated Amended Complaint and
denied plaintiffs' request for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint. In the
Order, the court concluded that the purchaser plaintiffs lacked standing under
the antitrust laws to assert the claims. The court indicated in the Order that
its decision did not apply to any claims brought on behalf of issuers of IPO
securities. The case is on appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.

IN RE ISSUER PLAINTIFF INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING FEE ANTITRUST LITIGATION

    By order dated April 10, 2001, the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York consolidated four actions pending before the court
brought by bankrupt issuers of IPO securities against more than 20 underwriter
defendants (including LBI): (1) CHS ELECTRONICS, INC. V. CREDIT SUISSE FIRST
BOSTON CORP., ET AL.; (2) EQUALNET COMMUNICATIONS CORP. V. GOLDMAN SACHS
GROUP, INC., ET AL.; (3) MDCM HOLDINGS, INC. F/K/A MORTGAGE.COM, INC. BY LEWIS
B. FREEMAN, ASSIGNEE FOR THE BENEFIT OF CREDITORs; and (4) JEFFREY A. WEINMAN,
AS TRUSTEE OF THE BANKRUPTCY ESTATE OF WESTERN PACIFIC AIRLINES V. SALOMON SMITH
BARNEY INC., ET AL. On July 6, 2001, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated class
action complaint seeking unspecified compensatory damages and injunctive relief
for alleged violations of the antitrust laws based on the theory that the
defendant underwriters fixed and maintained fees for underwriting certain IPO
securities at supra-competitive levels. CHS Electronics voluntarily dismissed
its claims with prejudice in October 2001.

ISLAND VENTURE CORPORATION, ET AL. V. LEHMAN BROTHERS INC. AND LEHMAN BROTHERS
  SECURITIES ASIA, LTD.

    On February 9, 2001, Island Venture Corporation, Continental Resources
Corporation, Recola Investment Corporation, Grand Concord Corporation and
Goodwell Industrial Corporation filed a First Amended Complaint in the United
States District Court for the District of New Jersey against LBI and Lehman
Brothers Securities Asia, Ltd. In July 2001, plaintiffs filed a Second Amended
Complaint. The complaint arises in connection with the plaintiffs' purchase of
various promissory notes issued by Indonesian companies in 1997 and upon which
the issuers have defaulted. It also asserts claims relating to an alleged
unauthorized liquidation for $8.5 million of a $10 million Asia Investment Grade
Default Note ("Basket Note") issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings PLC. The
complaint seeks rescission and damages under various common law theories of
mutual mistake, breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, negligence,
negligent misrepresentation and constructive fraud, as well as asserting claims
under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act").
The plaintiffs seek to recover

                                       11
<Page>
damages of approximately $60 million on all the notes they purchased and the
difference between the liquidation price and the face value of the Basket Note
plus lost interest payments.

IPO ALLOCATION CASES

    LBI has been named as a defendant in approximately 192 purported securities
class actions that were filed between March and December 2001 in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The actions, which
allege improper IPO allocation practices, have been brought by persons who,
either directly or in the aftermarket, purchased IPO securities during the
period between March 1997 and December 2000. The plaintiffs allege that Lehman
and other IPO underwriters required persons receiving allocations of IPO shares
to pay excessive commissions on unrelated trades and to purchase shares in the
aftermarket at specified escalating prices. The plaintiffs, who seek unspecified
compensatory damages, claim that these alleged practices violated various
provisions of the federal securities laws, specifically, sections 11, 12(a)(2)
and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"), section 10(b) of
the Exchange Act, Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, and section 20(a) of the
Exchange Act. The 192 actions in which LBI was named a defendant have been
consolidated into 83 cases, each involving a distinct offering. Those 83
consolidated cases, and approximately 240 others in which LBI is not named as a
defendant, have been coordinated for pretrial purposes before a single judge.

    On January 2, 2002, a separate consolidated class action, entitled IN RE
INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING ANTITRUST LITIGATION, was filed against LBI, among other
underwriters, alleging violations of federal and state antitrust laws. The
complaint alleges that the underwriter defendants conspired to require customers
who wanted IPO allocations to pay back to the underwriters a percentage of their
IPO profits in the form of commissions on unrelated trades, to purchase other,
less attractive securities and to buy shares in the aftermarket at predetermined
escalating prices. Originally filed as twelve separate class actions in three
different courts, the consolidated antitrust action is now pending before a
single judge--different from the one hearing the securities cases--in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The antitrust
plaintiffs seek unspecified treble damages.

FRED KAUFMAN V. ROGER S. BERLIND, ET AL.

    In June 2001 a shareholder of Holdings filed a derivative action in the
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against
Holdings and Holdings' board of directors for the purported benefit of Holdings
and its shareholders. The action alleges that the board members breached their
fiduciary duties of loyalty and good faith and failed to exercise their duties
of due care and due diligence by failing to maintain systems to alert them to
the alleged improper IPO allocation practices challenged in the IPO ALLOCATION
CASES (see above) and by failing to become informed of the alleged practices.
The action seeks unspecified compensatory damages based on the alleged damages
that Holdings may suffer if it is found liable in the pending IPO ALLOCATION
CASEs. Pursuant to a Stipulation and Order of Dismissal, agreed to by the
parties and approved by the court, the case was dismissed without prejudice in
November 2001.

YOUNG, ET AL. V. DREISBACH, ET AL.

    On November 1, 2001, this purported class action was filed in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of California. The action is
brought on behalf of a purported class of investors who purchased the common
stock of Metricom, Inc., during the period from June 21, 1999, to July 2, 2001.
Plaintiffs name various officers, directors and selling shareholders of
Metricom, along with LBI and the four other co-managing underwriters of an
offering of Metricom common stock on February 3, 2000. Prior to the commencement
of this action, Metricom filed for protection under the federal bankruptcy code.
The February 2000 offering raised approximately $500 million. Against the
underwriters, plaintiffs allege violations of Sections 11 and 12(2) of the
Securities Act and of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act. The complaint alleges
that the prospectus and registration statement for the offering failed to
disclose material facts concerning, among other things, Metricom's flawed
business plan and marketing strategy. The

                                       12
<Page>
complaint seeks class action status, damages and "statutory compensation", and
attorneys' fees and other costs.

ACTIONS REGARDING FRANK GRUTTADAURIA

    The Company discovered in January 2002 that Frank Gruttadauria, the former
branch manager of the Company's Cleveland office, which was acquired in
October 2000 from SG Cowen Securities Corporation ("SG Cowen") as part of the
purchase by the Company of certain accounts and related assets belonging to SG
Cowen's private client group, has apparently been involved in creating false
account statements for clients of that office and may have caused unauthorized
transfers of funds from client accounts. This conduct has allegedly taken place
for a number of years and began well prior to the acquisition of this office by
Lehman Brothers. Lehman Brothers continues to investigate the situation and
cooperate with law enforcement authorities. Under the terms of the purchase
agreement, SG Cowen retained liability for activities arising out of the conduct
or operation of the business while owned by SG Cowen.

        ROBERT FAZIO ET AL. V. FRANK GRUTTADAURIA, LEHMAN BROTHERS INC., LEHMAN
    BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC. ET AL. In February 2002, LBI and Holdings were served
    with an amended complaint in the United States District Court for the
    Northern District of Ohio, Eastern Division. The amended complaint alleges
    violations of section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder;
    violations of various NASD and New York Stock Exchange rules; violations of
    the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO); violations of
    Ohio laws; common law fraud; breach of fiduciary duty; failure to supervise
    and respondeat superior liability. Plaintiffs seek the amounts in their
    accounts from various times, alleged as approximately $18.5 million, plus
    appreciation on that amount, plus all income taxes plaintiffs paid on any
    non-existent gains; treble damages on the foregoing amounts; statutory
    relief; punitive damages; pre- and post-judgment interest; attorneys fees
    and costs and any other relief the court deems appropriate.

        EUNICE POST MELTZER V. LEHMAN BROTHERS INC. AND SG COWEN SECURITIES
    CORPORATION. In January 2002, LBI was served with a complaint in the United
    States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern
    Division. The complaint alleges theft, embezzlement and negligent and
    reckless failure to supervise and that plaintiff has been damaged in excess
    of $1 million. Plaintiff seeks delivery of all assets allegedly stolen plus
    interest and dividends, punitive damages, attorneys fees and costs and any
    other relief the court deems appropriate.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    None.

                                       13
<Page>
                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

    The approximate number of holders of record of the Registrant's Common Stock
was 23,030 at February 15, 2002. Information concerning the market for the
Registrant's common equity, dividends and related stockholder matters is set
forth under the captions "Selected Financial Data" on page 94 of the 2001 Annual
Report and "Other Stockholder Information" on page 96 of the 2001 Annual Report,
and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    The Selected Financial Data contained on page 94 of the 2001 Annual Report
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations is set forth under the same caption on pages 38 - 57 of the 2001
Annual Report. Such information is incorporated herein by reference and should
be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes
thereto contained on pages 58 - 93 of the 2001 Annual Report.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    The information under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Risk Management" on pages
53 - 55 of the 2001 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Registrant and its Subsidiaries
together with the Notes thereto and the Report of Independent Auditors thereon
required by this Item are contained in the 2001 Annual Report on pages 58 - 93
and are incorporated herein by reference. Condensed unconsolidated financial
information of Holdings and notes thereto are set forth in Schedule I beginning
on Page F-2 of this report and are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.

                                       14
<Page>
                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Information relating to Directors of the Registrant is set forth under the
captions "Nominees for Election as Class I Directors to Serve until the 2005
Annual Meeting of Stockholders", "Class II Directors Whose Terms Continue until
the 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders" and "Class III Directors Whose Terms
Continue until the 2003 Annual Meeting of Stockholders" on pages 4 - 6 of the
Proxy Statement, and information relating to Executive Officers of the
Registrant is set forth under the caption "Executive Officers of the Company" on
page 9 of the Proxy Statement, and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    Information relating to executive compensation is set forth under the
captions "Compensation of Directors", "Compensation and Benefits Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation", "Compensation of Executive Officers",
"Pension Benefits", "Employment Contracts, Termination of Employment and Change
of Control Arrangements" and "Performance Graph" on pages 8 and 12 - 17 of the
Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is set forth under the caption "Security Ownership of Principal
Stockholders" on page 3 of the Proxy Statement and the caption "Security
Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers" on page 10 of the Proxy Statement
and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    Information relating to certain relationships and related transactions is
set forth under the captions "Certain Transactions and Agreements with Directors
and Executive Officers" and "Certain Transactions and Agreements with American
Express and Subsidiaries" on pages 18 - 20 of the Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.

                                       15
<Page>
                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    (a) 1. Financial Statements:

    The Financial Statements and the Notes thereto and the Report of Independent
Auditors thereon incorporated by reference herein and filed as an exhibit hereto
are listed on page F-1 hereof by reference to the corresponding page numbers in
the 2001 Annual Report.

       2.  Financial Statement Schedules:

    The financial statement schedule and the notes thereto filed as a part
hereof are listed on page F-1 hereof.

       3.  Exhibits:

<Table>
<Caption>
       EXHIBIT
         NO.
- ---------------------
<C>                     <S>

         3.01           Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant
                        dated May 27, 1994 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1
                        to the Registrant's Transition Report on Form 10-K for the
                        eleven months ended November 30, 1994)

         3.02           Certificate of Designations with respect to the Registrant's
                        5.94% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C (incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Current Report
                        on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 13, 1998)

         3.03           Certificate of Designations with respect to the Registrant's
                        5.67% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D (incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant's Current Report
                        on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 23, 1998)

         3.04           Certificate of Designations with respect to the Registrant's
                        Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E
                        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the
                        Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC
                        on March 30, 2000)

         3.05           Certificate of Amendment of the Restated Certificate of
                        Incorporation of the Registrant, dated April 9, 2001
                        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.5 to the
                        Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                        ended February 28, 2001)

         3.06           By-Laws of the Registrant, amended as of March 26, 1997
                        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's
                        Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February
                        28, 1997)

         4.01           Standard multiple series indenture provisions with respect
                        to the senior and subordinated debt securities (incorporated
                        by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to Post-Effective Amendment No.
                        1 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-3
                        (Reg. No. 33-16141))

         4.02           Indenture with respect to senior debt securities
                        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Post-
                        Effective Amendment No. 1 to the Registrant's Registration
                        Statement on Form S-3 (Reg. No. 33-16141))

         4.03           First Supplemental Indenture with respect to senior debt
                        securities (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(m) to the
                        Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Reg. No.
                        33-25797))

         4.04           Second Supplemental Indenture with respect to senior debt
                        securities (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(e) to the
                        Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Reg.
                        No. 33-49062))

         4.05           Third Supplemental Indenture with respect to senior debt
                        securities (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(f) to the
                        Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Reg. No.
                        33-46146))
</Table>

                                       16
<Page>

<Table>
<Caption>
       EXHIBIT
         NO.
- ---------------------
<C>                     <S>
         4.06           Fourth Supplemental Indenture with respect to senior debt
                        securities (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(f) to
                        Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with
                        the SEC on October 7, 1993)

         4.07           Fifth Supplemental Indenture with respect to the senior debt
                        securities (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(h) to
                        Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to the Registrant's
                        Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Reg. No. 33-56615))

         4.08           Sixth Supplemental Indenture with respect to the senior debt
                        securities (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(h) to the
                        Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-3
                        (No. 333-38227))

         4.09           The other instruments defining the rights of holders of the
                        long-term debt securities of the Registrant and its
                        subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to section (b)(4)(iii)(A)
                        of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. The Registrant hereby agrees
                        to furnish copies of these instruments to the Securities and
                        Exchange Commission upon request.

        10.01           Agreement of Tenants-In-Common by and among American Express
                        Company, American Express Bank Ltd., American Express Travel
                        Related Services Company, Inc., Shearson Lehman Brothers
                        Inc., Shearson Lehman Government Securities, Inc. and
                        Shearson Lehman Commercial Paper Incorporated (incorporated
                        by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Transition
                        Report on Form 10-K for the eleven months ended November 30,
                        1994)

        10.02           Tax Allocation Agreement between Shearson Lehman Brothers
                        Holdings Inc. and American Express Company (incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Transition
                        Report on Form 10-K for the eleven months ended November 30,
                        1994)

        10.03+          Lehman Brothers Inc. Executive and Select Employees Plan
                        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
                        Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Reg.
                        No. 33-12976))

        10.04+          Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for
                        Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                        10.11 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
                        Form S-1 (Reg. No. 33-12976))

        10.05           Amended and Restated Agreements of Limited Partnership of
                        Shearson Lehman Hutton Capital Partners II (incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 10.48 to the Registrant's Annual Report
                        on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988)

        10.06+          Amended and Restated Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 1994
                        Management Ownership Plan as of April 3, 2001 (incorporated
                        by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly
                        Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2001)

        10.07+          Amended and Restated Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 1996
                        Management Ownership Plan, as of March 31, 2001 (including
                        amendments to Section 3(a) and to Exhibit A(c))*

        10.08+          Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Short-Term Executive
                        Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
                        to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                        quarter ended August 31, 1996)
</Table>

- ------------------------

*   Filed herewith

+   Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed
    as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 14(c)

                                       17
<Page>

<Table>
<Caption>
       EXHIBIT
         NO.
- ---------------------
<C>                     <S>
        10.09+          Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 1996 Short-Term Executive
                        Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                        10.26 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-1
                        (Reg. No. 33-52977))

        10.10+          Amended and Restated Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Employee
                        Incentive Plan, as amended through March 31, 2001 (including
                        amendments to Section 3(a) and to Exhibit A(c))*

        10.11+          Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Cash Award Plan (incorporated
                        by reference to Exhibit 10.36 to the Registrant's Transition
                        Report on Form 10-K for the Eleven Months ended
                        November 30, 1994)

        10.12           Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of
                        Lehman Brothers Capital Partners III, L.P. (incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the Registrant's Annual Report
                        on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 1995)

        10.13           Agreement of Limited Partnership of Lehman Brothers Capital
                        Partners IV, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                        10.30 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                        fiscal year ended November 30, 1997)

        10.14           A description of the Lehman Brothers Supplemental Executive
                        Retirement Plan is contained under the caption "Pension
                        Benefits" on pages 15 and 16 of the Proxy Statement and is
                        incorporated herein by reference.

        10.15           Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of October 19, 2001,
                        between MSDW 745, LLC, as seller, and LB 745 LLC, as
                        purchaser*

        10.16           Amendment to Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of the
                        October 19, 2001, between MSDW 745, LLC, as seller, and LB
                        745 LLC, as purchaser*

        10.17           JV Option Agreement dated November 19, 1998, between
                        Rock-Forty-Ninth LLC and LB 745 LLC (as assignee of MSDW
                        745, LLC)*

        12              Computations in support of ratio of earnings to fixed
                        charges and ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and
                        preferred stock dividends*

        13              The following portions of the Company's 2001 Annual Report
                        to Stockholders, which are incorporated by reference herein:
                        "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
                        and Results of Operations", pages 38 - 57*; "Consolidated
                        Financial Statements", pages 58 - 93*; "Selected Financial
                        Data", page 94*; and "Other Stockholder Information", page
                        96*.

        21              List of the Registrant's Subsidiaries*

        23              Consent of Ernst & Young LLP*

        24              Powers of Attorney*
</Table>

- ------------------------

*   Filed herewith

+   Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed
    as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 14(c)

                                       18
<Page>
    (b) Reports on Form 8-K

       1.  Form 8-K dated September 25, 2001, Items 5 and 7

<Table>
<S>                     <C>
Financial Statements:

Exhibit 99.2            Consolidated Statement of Income (Three Months Ended
                        August 31, 2001) (Preliminary and Unaudited)

Exhibit 99.3            Consolidated Statement of Income (Nine Months Ended
                        August 31, 2001) (Preliminary and Unaudited)

Exhibit 99.4            Segment Net Revenue Information (Three and Nine Months
                        Ended August 31, 2001) (Preliminary and Unaudited)

Exhibit 99.5            Selected Statistical Information (Preliminary and
                        Unaudited)
</Table>

       2.  Form 8-K dated October 2, 2001, Item 7

       3.  Form 8-K dated October 5, 2001, Item 7

       4.  Form 8-K dated November 13, 2001, Item 7

                                       19
<Page>
                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Annual Report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

<Table>
<S>                                                    <C>  <C>
                                                                LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC.
                                                                        (REGISTRANT)

February 28, 2002

                                                       By:              /s/ DAVID GOLDFARB
                                                            -----------------------------------------
                                                                          David Goldfarb
                                                             Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice
                                                                            President
</Table>

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

<Table>
<Caption>
                     SIGNATURES                                   TITLE                    DATE
                     ----------                                   -----                    ----
<C>                                                    <S>                           <C>
                                                       Chief Executive Officer and
              /s/ RICHARD S. FULD, JR.                   Chairman of the Board of
     -------------------------------------------         Directors (principal        February 28, 2002
                Richard S. Fuld, Jr.                     executive officer)

                                                       Chief Financial Officer and
                 /s/ DAVID GOLDFARB                      Senior Vice President
     -------------------------------------------         (principal financial and    February 28, 2002
                   David Goldfarb                        accounting officer)

               /s/ MICHAEL L. AINSLIE                  Director
     -------------------------------------------                                     February 28, 2002
                 Michael L. Ainslie

                  /s/ JOHN F. AKERS                    Director
     -------------------------------------------                                     February 28, 2002
                    John F. Akers

                /s/ ROGER S. BERLIND                   Director
     -------------------------------------------                                     February 28, 2002
                  Roger S. Berlind

              /s/ THOMAS H. CRUIKSHANK                 Director
     -------------------------------------------                                     February 28, 2002
                Thomas H. Cruikshank

                  /s/ HENRY KAUFMAN                    Director
     -------------------------------------------                                     February 28, 2002
                    Henry Kaufman

                /s/ JOHN D. MACOMBER                   Director
     -------------------------------------------                                     February 28, 2002
                  John D. Macomber

                  /s/ DINA MERRILL                     Director
     -------------------------------------------                                     February 28, 2002
                    Dina Merrill
</Table>

                                       20
<Page>
                 LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                        PAGE
                                                              -------------------------
                                                              FORM 10-K   ANNUAL REPORT
                                                              ---------   -------------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Report of Independent Auditors..............................              58
Consolidated Statement of Income for the Twelve Months Ended
  November 30, 2001, 2000, and 1999.........................              59
Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition at November
  30, 2001 and 2000.........................................              60 - 61
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity
  for the Twelve Months Ended November 30, 2001, 2000, and
  1999......................................................              62 - 63
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the Twelve Months
  Ended November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999....................              64
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..................              65 - 93

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
Schedule I--Condensed Financial Information of Registrant...     F-2
</Table>

                                      F-1
<Page>
                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                         LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC.
                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                            STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                             (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)
                                 (IN MILLIONS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                      TWELVE MONTHS ENDED NOVEMBER 30
                                                                   --------------------------------------
                                                                     2001           2000           1999
                                                                   --------       --------       --------
<S>                                                                <C>            <C>            <C>
Revenues
  Interest and dividends....................................        $4,162         $2,667         $2,218
  Principal transactions and other..........................           404            247           (128)
                                                                    ------         ------         ------
      Total revenues........................................         4,566          2,914          2,090
  Interest expense..........................................         4,364          2,813          2,200
                                                                    ------         ------         ------
      Net revenues..........................................           202            101           (110)

Equity in net income of subsidiaries........................         1,628          1,894          1,418
Non-interest expenses.......................................           333            455            350
Special charge..............................................            76             --             --
                                                                    ------         ------         ------
Income before taxes.........................................         1,421          1,540            958
  Provision/(benefit) for income taxes......................           166           (235)          (174)
                                                                    ------         ------         ------
Net income..................................................        $1,255         $1,775         $1,132
                                                                    ======         ======         ======
Net income applicable to common stock.......................        $1,161         $1,679         $1,037
                                                                    ======         ======         ======
</Table>

          See notes to condensed financial information of Registrant.

                                      F-2
<Page>
                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                         LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC.
                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                                 BALANCE SHEET
                             (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)
                    (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT FOR PER SHARE DATA)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                        NOVEMBER 30
                                                                  -----------------------
                                                                    2001           2000
                                                                  --------       --------
<S>                                                               <C>            <C>
ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents...................................      $   566        $   450
Securities and other financial instruments owned (including
  $7,057 million of securities pledged during 2001).........       11,296          7,512
Securities purchased under agreements to resell.............        5,899         16,113
Equity in net assets of subsidiaries........................        7,982          7,577
Receivables and accrued interest............................          494            828
Due from subsidiaries.......................................       35,930         23,708
Other assets................................................        2,535          1,796
                                                                  -------        -------
    Total assets............................................      $64,702        $57,984
                                                                  =======        =======

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Commercial paper and short-term debt........................      $ 1,858        $ 4,168
Securities and other financial instruments sold but not yet
  purchased.................................................          984            244
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase..............       10,061          7,316
Accrued liabilities, due to subsidiaries and other
  payables..................................................       12,426          9,882
Senior notes................................................       29,982         27,511
Subordinated indebtedness...................................          932            932
                                                                  -------        -------
    Total liabilities.......................................       56,243         50,053
                                                                  -------        -------

Commitments and contingencies
Preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption........           --            150
Stockholders' equity:
  Preferred stock...........................................          700            700
  Common stock, $0.10 par value; shares authorized:
    600,000,000 in 2001 and 300,000,000 in 2000; shares
    issued: 256,178,907 in 2001 and 251,629,126 in 2000;
    shares outstanding: 237,534,091 in 2001 and 236,395,332
    in 2000.................................................           25             25
  Additional paid-in capital................................        3,562          3,589
  Accumulated other comprehensive income (net of tax).......          (10)            (8)
  Retained earnings.........................................        4,798          3,713
  Other stockholders' equity, net...........................          746            597

  Common stock in treasury, at cost: 18,644,816 shares in
    2001 and 15,233,794 shares in 2000......................       (1,362)          (835)
                                                                  -------        -------
    Total stockholders' equity..............................        8,459          7,781
                                                                  -------        -------
    Total liabilities and stockholders' equity..............      $64,702        $57,984
                                                                  =======        =======
</Table>

          See notes to condensed financial information of Registrant.

                                      F-3
<Page>
                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                         LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC.
                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                            STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                             (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)
                                 (IN MILLIONS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                   TWELVE MONTHS ENDED
                                                                       NOVEMBER 30
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                2001       2000       1999
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net income..................................................  $  1,255   $ 1,775    $  1,132
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
  (used in) operating activities:
  Equity in net income of subsidiaries......................    (1,628)   (1,894)     (1,418)
  Dividends received........................................     1,252       634         145
  Tax benefit from issuance of stock based awards...........       549       373          90
  Amortization of deferred stock compensation...............       544       520         363
  Special charge............................................       127        --          --
  Other adjustments.........................................       103      (104)        244
Net change in:
  Securities and other financial instruments owned..........    (2,998)      278       1,992
  Accounts receivable and accrued interest, due from
    subsidiaries and other assets...........................   (12,627)    2,734       4,580
  Securities and other financial instruments sold but not
    yet purchased...........................................       740        24         139
  Accrued liabilities, due to subsidiaries and other
    payables................................................     2,677       664       4,504
                                                              --------   -------    --------
    Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities.....   (10,006)    5,004      11,771
                                                              --------   -------    --------
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from issuance of senior notes......................     6,794    10,020       5,843
Principal payments of senior notes..........................    (5,163)   (6,629)     (4,680)
Proceeds from issuance of subordinated indebtedness.........        --        --         732
Net proceeds from (payments for) commercial paper and
  short-term debt...........................................    (2,310)       81      (1,016)
Resale agreements net of repurchase agreements..............    12,959    (8,456)    (11,259)
Payments for repurchase of preferred stock..................      (100)      (88)       (220)
Payments for treasury stock purchases.......................    (1,676)   (1,203)       (256)
Dividends paid..............................................      (163)     (149)       (139)
Issuances of common stock...................................        54        99           8
Issuances of preferred stock, net of issuance costs.........        --       250          --
                                                              --------   -------    --------
    Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities.....    10,395    (6,075)    (10,987)
                                                              --------   -------    --------
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchases of property, equipment and leasehold improvements,
  net.......................................................      (103)       --          --
Equity in net assets of subsidiaries........................       (29)       (7)       (280)
Capital distributions received..............................        --       244          95
Capital infusions paid......................................      (141)     (197)       (270)
                                                              --------   -------    --------
    Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities.....      (273)       40        (455)
                                                              --------   -------    --------
    Net change in cash and cash equivalents.................       116    (1,031)        329
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period..............       450     1,481       1,152
                                                              --------   -------    --------
  Cash and cash equivalents, end of period..................  $    566   $   450    $  1,481
                                                              ========   =======    ========
</Table>

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION (IN MILLIONS)

Interest paid totaled $3,138 in 2001, $2,151 in 2000 and $2,177 in 1999. Income
taxes received totaled $481 in 2001, $418 in 2000 and $332 in 1999.

NON-CASH INVESTING AND FINANCING ACTIVITIES IN 2000 (IN MILLIONS)

<Table>
<S>                                                           <C>
Assets assumed from affiliate...............................   $8,185
Liabilities assumed from affiliate..........................    8,836
</Table>

          See notes to condensed financial information of Registrant.

                                      F-4
<Page>
                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                         LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC.

             NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                             (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION

    The condensed financial statements of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
("Holdings") should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and subsidiaries (collectively, the
"Company") and the notes thereto.

    Certain amounts reflect reclassifications to conform to the current period's
presentation.

NOTE 2. SPECIAL CHARGE

    As a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack, Holdings' leased
facilities in the World Trade Center ("WTC") were destroyed and its leased and
owned facilities in the World Financial Center ("WFC") complex (including the 3
World Financial Center building owned jointly with American Express) were
significantly damaged. All employees and operations in the downtown New York
area were displaced. Key business activities and necessary support functions
were quickly relocated to back-up facilities in New Jersey and to various other
temporary sites.

    Holdings and the Company have been informed that the facilities in the World
Financial Center complex can be repaired; however, the damage to many of the
floors that had been occupied by the Company at the 3 WFC location is
significant. A repair and remediation plan is currently underway although a
completion date has not been finalized. Consequently, Holdings purchased a new
one million square foot building at 745 Seventh Avenue in New York City during
the fourth quarter and is relocating its principal executive and operating
offices to this site in 2002. New long-term lease agreements were also executed
for other space in midtown Manhattan. As a result, the Company is currently
evaluating its space needs and exploring alternatives with respect to 3 WFC and
the other downtown New York facilities.

    The Company has significant levels of insurance in place to cover the losses
resulting from the terrorist attacks including a policy covering damage to the
core and shell of the 3 WFC building and a separate policy covering the property
damage of the WTC and WFC facilities, losses resulting from business
interruption and extra expenses associated with the Company's relocation to, and
occupancy of, the temporary facilities.

    Consequently, Holdings' recognized a pre-tax special charge of $76 million
($42 million after-tax) associated with the net losses stemming from the events
of September 11, 2001. The losses and costs include the write-off of property
damaged, destroyed or abandoned at the Company's downtown facilities
(approximately $127 million), compensation paid to employees in lieu of
utilizing external consultants for business recovery efforts and to employees
for the time they were idled (approximately $39 million), and other costs
associated with redeployment of the Company's workforce to the temporary
facilities (approximately $30 million). The losses and costs were offset by
estimated insurance recoveries of $120 million.

    The charge does not reflect any loss resulting from the damage to the core
and shell of the Company's 3 WFC facility, as this amount is not yet known.
However, the Company believes that any loss will be fully recoverable under the
Company's building core and shell insurance policy.

    The insurance recovery recorded through November 30, 2001 has been limited
to the net historical book value of assets believed damaged, destroyed or
abandoned and the out-of-pocket costs for certain extra expenses incurred during
the period.

                                      F-5
<Page>
                         LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC.

       NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (CONTINUED)

                             (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

NOTE 3. LONG-TERM DEBT

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                      U.S. DOLLAR         NON-U.S. DOLLAR         NOVEMBER 30
                                                  -------------------   -------------------   -------------------
                                                   FIXED     FLOATING    FIXED     FLOATING
                                                    RATE       RATE       RATE       RATE       2001       2000
                                                  --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
                                                                           (IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                               <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Senior Notes
Maturing in Fiscal 2001.........................                                                         $ 4,394
Maturing in Fiscal 2002.........................  $ 1,667     $2,987     $  381     $  756    $ 5,791      5,186
Maturing in Fiscal 2003.........................    2,309      2,252        572        510      5,643      4,810
Maturing in Fiscal 2004.........................    1,742      1,103        967        553      4,365      3,346
Maturing in Fiscal 2005.........................    2,348        550        127        531      3,556      3,521
Maturing in Fiscal 2006.........................    3,036         55        457        269      3,817      1,252
December 1, 2006 and thereafter.................    5,704         40        909        157      6,810      5,002
                                                  -------     ------     ------     ------    -------    -------
  Senior Notes..................................   16,806      6,987      3,413      2,776     29,982     27,511
                                                  -------     ------     ------     ------    -------    -------

Subordinated Indebtedness
  December 1, 2005 and thereafter...............      932                                         932        932
                                                  -------     ------     ------     ------    -------    -------
Long-Term Debt..................................  $17,738     $6,987     $3,413     $2,776    $30,914    $28,443
                                                  =======     ======     ======     ======    =======    =======
</Table>

    Of the Company's long-term debt outstanding as of November 30, 2001,
$648 million is repayable prior to maturity at the option of the holder, at par
value. These obligations are reflected in the above table at their put dates,
which range from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003, rather than at their contractual
maturities, which range from fiscal 2004 to fiscal 2026. In addition,
$1,303 million of the Company's long-term debt is redeemable prior to maturity
at the option of the Company under various terms and conditions. These
obligations are reflected in the above table at their contractual maturity
dates.

    As of November 30, 2001, the Company's U.S. dollar debt portfolio included
approximately $533 million of debt for which the interest rates and/or
redemption values have been linked to various indices including industry baskets
of stocks or commodities. Generally, such notes are issued as floating rate
notes or the interest rates on such index notes are effectively converted to
floating rates based primarily on LIBOR through the use of interest rate and
currency swaps.

    At November 30, 2001 and 2000, Subordinated Indebtedness includes
$710 million, which has been classified as "Preferred Securities Subject to
Mandatory Redemption" on the Company's Consolidated Statement of Financial
Condition.

END-USER DERIVATIVE ACTIVITIES

    The Company utilizes interest rate swaps as an end-user to modify the
interest rate characteristics of its long-term debt portfolio and certain
secured financing activities. Effective 2001, the Company adopted SFAS No. 133,
and as such all end-user derivatives at November 30, 2001 are recorded at fair
value on the balance sheet (see Note 1 to the Company's Consolidated Financial
Statements for more information). The Company adjusted the carrying value of a
substantial portion of the Company's fixed rate debt to a modified
mark-to-market value in accordance with SFAS No. 133, as the debt was designated
as the hedged item in a fair value hedge.

                                      F-6
<Page>
                         LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC.

       NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (CONTINUED)

                             (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

    At November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000, the notional values of the
Company's interest rate and currency swaps related to its long-term debt
obligations were approximately $25.9 billion and $21.2 billion, respectively. In
terms of notional amounts outstanding, these derivative products mature as
follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                    FAIR VALUE HEDGE                     OTHER(2)             NOVEMBER 30
                                   -------------------              -------------------   -------------------
                                                NON-                             NON-
                                     U.S.       U.S.      CROSS-      U.S.       U.S.
                                    DOLLAR     DOLLAR    CURRENCY    DOLLAR     DOLLAR      2001       2000
                                   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
                                                                 (IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Maturing in Fiscal 2001..........                                                                    $ 2,519
Maturing in Fiscal 2002..........  $ 1,263     $  394     $  414     $  987     $ 255     $ 3,313      3,447
Maturing in Fiscal 2003..........    2,198        570        110        948        69       3,895      3,519
Maturing in Fiscal 2004..........    1,460        716        733      1,138        66       4,113      2,568
Maturing in Fiscal 2005..........    2,153         91        718         45        --       3,007      3,010
Maturing in Fiscal 2006..........    2,900        447        486         90       177       4,100      1,333
December 1, 2006 and
  thereafter.....................    5,552        862        866         59       180       7,519      4,851
                                   -------     ------     ------     ------     -----     -------    -------
Total............................  $15,526     $3,080     $3,327     $3,267     $ 747     $25,947    $21,247
                                   =======     ======     ======     ======     =====     =======    =======

Weighted-average rate(1)
Receive rate.....................     7.48%      4.67%      4.24%      2.91%     4.44%       5.93%      6.72%
Pay rate.........................     3.15%      3.83%      2.93%      2.57%     4.04%       3.03%      7.26%
</Table>

- ------------------------

(1) Weighted-average interest rates were calculated utilizing non-U.S. dollar
    interest rates, where applicable.

(2) Other derivatives include basis swaps and hedges of embedded derivatives.

                                      F-7
<Page>
                         LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC.

       NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (CONTINUED)

                             (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

    The Company's end-user derivative activities resulted in the following
changes to the Company's mix of fixed and floating rate debt and effective
weighted-average rates of interest:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                     NOVEMBER 30, 2001
                                                                  ------------------------
                                                         LONG-TERM DEBT            WEIGHTED-AVERAGE(1)
                                                     -----------------------   ----------------------------
                                                       BEFORE       AFTER                    EFFECTIVE RATE
                                                        END          END       CONTRACTUAL     AFTER END
                                                        USER         USER       INTEREST          USER
                                                     ACTIVITIES   ACTIVITIES      RATE         ACTIVITIES
                                                     ----------   ----------   -----------   --------------
                                                          (IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                  <C>          <C>          <C>           <C>
USD Obligations
    Fixed Rate.....................................    $17,738      $ 1,158
    Floating Rate..................................      6,987       26,950
                                                       -------      -------
                                                        24,725       28,108
Non-USD Obligations................................      6,189        2,806
                                                       -------      -------
Total..............................................    $30,914      $30,914        5.39%          2.96%
                                                       =======      =======        ====           ====
</Table>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                     NOVEMBER 30, 2000
                                                                  ------------------------
                                                         LONG-TERM DEBT            WEIGHTED-AVERAGE(1)
                                                     -----------------------   ----------------------------
                                                       BEFORE       AFTER                    EFFECTIVE RATE
                                                        END          END       CONTRACTUAL     AFTER END
                                                        USER         USER       INTEREST          USER
                                                     ACTIVITIES   ACTIVITIES      RATE         ACTIVITIES
                                                     ----------   ----------   -----------   --------------
                                                          (IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                  <C>          <C>          <C>           <C>
USD Obligations
    Fixed Rate.....................................    $15,604      $ 1,104
    Floating Rate..................................      7,402       24,964
                                                       -------      -------
                                                        23,006       26,068
Non-USD Obligations................................      5,437        2,375
                                                       -------      -------
Total..............................................    $28,443      $28,443        6.83%          7.23%
                                                       =======      =======        ====           ====
</Table>

- ------------------------

(1) Weighted-average interest rates were calculated utilizing non-US dollar
    interest rates, where applicable.

                                      F-8
<Page>
                         LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC.

       NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (CONTINUED)

                             (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

NOTE 4. SECURITIES PLEDGED AS COLLATERAL

    The Company enters into secured borrowing and lending transactions to
finance trading inventory positions, obtain securities for settlement, and meet
customers' needs. The Company primarily receives collateral in connection with
resale agreements. The Company is generally permitted to sell or repledge these
securities held as collateral and use the securities to secure repurchase
agreements or deliver to counterparties to cover short positions. At
November 30, 2001, the fair value of securities received as collateral that have
not been sold or repledged totaled approximately $2.1 billion. The gross fair
value of securities received as collateral where the Company was permitted to
sell or repledge the securities was approximately $6.1 billion. Of this
collateral, approximately $4.0 billion has been sold or repledged, generally as
collateral under repurchase agreements or to cover securities and other
financial instruments sold but not yet purchased.

    A reconciliation of the amount of unencumbered securities and other
financial instruments owned at November 30, 2001 follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                        NOVEMBER 30, 2001
                                                              -------------------------------------
                                                              SECURITIES AND
                                                              OTHER FINANCIAL
                                                                INSTRUMENTS      AMOUNT
                                                                   OWNED        PLEDGED      NET
                                                              ---------------   --------   --------
                                                                          (IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>               <C>        <C>
Securities and other financial instruments owned:
  Mortgages and mortgaged-backed............................      $ 8,355        $6,853     $1,502
  Derivatives and other contractual agreements..............        1,722            --      1,722
  Corporate debt and other..................................        1,219           204      1,015
                                                                  -------        ------     ------
Total.......................................................      $11,296        $7,057     $4,239
                                                                  =======        ======     ======
</Table>

NOTE 5. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    The Company has guaranteed certain of its subsidiaries' unsecured lines of
credit and other contractual obligations.

NOTE 6. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

    In the normal course of business, Holdings engages in various securities
trading and financing activities with many of its subsidiaries (the "Related
Parties"). Various charges, such as compensation and benefits, occupancy,
administration and computer processing are allocated between the Related
Parties, based upon specific identification and allocation methods. Included in
non-interest expenses were management fees paid to Holdings of approximately
$98 million, $29 million and $57 million for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

    In addition, Holdings and subsidiaries of Holdings raise money through
short- and long-term funding in capital markets, which is used to fund the
operations of certain of the Company's wholly owned subsidiaries. Advances from
Holdings to affiliates were approximately $35.9 billion and $23.7 billion at
November 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In addition, Holdings had advances
from subsidiaries aggregating $10.7 billion and $7.0 billion at November 30,
2001 and 2000, respectively.

                                      F-9
<Page>
                         LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC.

       NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (CONTINUED)

                             (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

    At November 30, 2001, Holdings had $5.7 billion of securities purchased
under agreements to resell and $8.7 billion of securities sold under agreements
to repurchase with Related Parties.

    Holdings believes that amounts arising through related party transactions,
including those allocated expenses referred to above, are reasonable and
approximate the amounts that would have been recorded if Holdings operated as an
unaffiliated entity.

    Dividends and capital distributions declared to Holdings by its subsidiaries
and affiliates were $1,252 million in 2001, $878 million in 2000 and
$240 million in 1999.

                                      F-10

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.07
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>a2071673zex-10_07.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.07
<TEXT>
<Page>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.07


                          LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC.
                         1996 MANAGEMENT OWNERSHIP PLAN
                        AS AMENDED THROUGH MARCH 31, 2001

SECTION 1 -- PURPOSE

   The purpose of the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 1996 Management Ownership
Plan (the "Plan") is to strengthen Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (the "Company")
by providing selected employees of the Company with the opportunity to acquire a
proprietary and vested interest in the growth and performance of the Company,
thus generating an increased incentive to contribute to the Company's future
success and prosperity, enhancing the value of the Company for the benefit of
stockholders, and enhancing the Company's ability to attract and retain
individuals of exceptional talent.

   The purposes of the Plan are to be achieved through the grant of various
types of stock-based awards.

SECTION 2 -- DEFINITIONS

   For purposes of the Plan, the capitalized terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in Exhibit A hereof.

SECTION 3 -- SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN

   (a) Shares of Common Stock which may be issued under the Plan may be either
authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock or authorized and issued shares
of Common Stock held in the Company's treasury, or any combination thereof.
Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 14, the number of shares of Common
Stock with respect to which Awards (whether distributable in shares of Common
Stock or in cash) may be granted under the Plan shall be 42 million shares. The
maximum number of shares of Common Stock available for stock options, stock
appreciation rights or Other Stock-based Awards that may be granted to a
Participant during a calendar year shall not exceed two million.

   (b) Notwithstanding the last sentence of Section 3(a), to the extent that the
number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted
under the Plan to an individual in any calendar year exceeds the number of
shares of Common Stock with respect to which Awards were granted under the Plan
during that calendar year, such excess shall be available for grant under the
Plan in succeeding calendar years.

   (c) In the event that any other Award subject to repurchase or forfeiture
rights is reacquired by the Company or if any Award is canceled, terminates or
expires unexercised (except with respect to a stock option which terminates on
the exercise of a stock appreciation right) for any reason under the Plan, any
Common Stock allocated in connection with such Award shall thereafter again be
available for grant pursuant to the Plan.

SECTION 4 -- ELIGIBILITY

   Members of the Corporate Management Committee and the Operating Committee
(and successor entities of such committees), all Senior Vice Presidents, all
Managing Directors and officers holding a title senior to Managing Director are
eligible to be Participants in the Plan.

SECTION 5 -- ADMINISTRATION

   The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have the power
to select those Participants who shall receive Awards and to determine the terms
of such Awards. As to the selection of, and the terms of Awards granted to,
Participants who are not Executive Officers, the Committee may delegate any or
all of its responsibilities to officers or employees of the Company. With
respect to any

<Page>

"Covered Employee" (as such term is defined in Section 162(m) of the Code), the
Committee shall administer the Plan in such a manner as to comply with the
requirements for deductibility under Section 162(m) of the Code.

   The Committee's authority hereunder shall include, without limitation, the
establishment of vesting schedules or exercisability in installments with
respect to Awards. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, accelerate or
waive vesting or exercise periods or the lapse of restrictions on all or any
portion of any Award, or extend the exercisability (including to extend or
provide for post-termination exercisability) of stock options or stock
appreciation rights; provided that such exercisability shall not extend past ten
years from the date of grant of any incentive stock options.

   Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall be authorized to
interpret the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind any rules and regulations
relating to the Plan, to determine the terms and provisions of any agreements
entered into hereunder, and to make all other determinations necessary or
advisable for the administration of the Plan. The Committee may correct any
defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any
Award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable to carry the Plan
or any such Award into effect. The determinations of the Committee in the
administration of the Plan, as described herein, shall be final and conclusive.

   The validity, construction and effect of the Plan and any rules and
regulations relating to the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws
of the State of Delaware and applicable Federal law.

SECTION 6 -- STOCK OPTIONS

   (a) Any stock options granted under the Plan shall be in such form as the
Committee may from time to time approve and shall be subject to the terms and
conditions provided herein and such additional terms and conditions not
inconsistent with the terms of the Plan as the Committee shall deem desirable.

   (b) Stock options may be granted to any Participant. Each grant of stock
options shall specify whether the underlying options are intended to be
incentive stock options or non-incentive stock options. In the case of incentive
stock options, the terms and conditions of such grants shall be subject to and
comply with such requirements as may be prescribed by Section 422(b) of the
Code, as from time to time amended, and any implementing regulations, including,
but not limited to, the requirement that such stock options are exercisable
during the Participant's lifetime only by such Participant. The Committee shall
establish the option price at the time each stock option is granted, which price
shall not be less than 100 percent of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock
on the date of grant.

   (c) No stock options may be exercisable later than ten years after their date
of grant. The option price of each share of Common Stock as to which a stock
option is exercised shall be paid in full at the time of such exercise. Such
payment may be made at the sole discretion of the Committee, pursuant to and in
accordance with criteria and guidelines established by the Committee (which
criteria and guidelines may be different for Executive Officers and for other
Participants), as the same may be modified from time to time, (i) in cash, (ii)
by tender of shares of Common Stock already owned by the Participant, valued at
Fair Market Value as of the date of exercise, (iii) if authorized by the
Committee, by withholding pursuant to the election of the Participant, which
election is subject to the disapproval of the Committee, from those shares that
would otherwise be obtained upon exercise of the option a number of shares
having a Fair Market Value equal to the option price, (iv) if authorized by the
Committee, and in combination with services rendered by the exercising
Participant, by delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together with
irrevocable instructions to a securities broker (or, in the case of pledges,
lender) approved by the Company to, (a) sell shares of Common Stock subject to
the option and to deliver promptly to the Company a portion of the proceeds of
such sale transaction on behalf of the exercising Participant to pay the option
price, or (b) pledge shares of Common Stock subject to the option to a margin
account maintained with such broker or lender, as security for a loan, and such
broker or lender, pursuant to irrevocable instructions, delivers to the Company
the loan proceeds, at the time of exercise to pay the option price, (v) by any
combination of (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) above or (vi) by other means that the
Committee deems appropriate.


                                       2
<Page>

   (d) A stock option holder may, in the discretion of the Committee, have the
right to surrender a stock option or any portion thereof to the Company within
30 days following a Change in Control and to receive from the Company in
exchange therefor a cash payment in an amount equal to (a) the number of
unexercised shares of Common Stock under the option which are being surrendered
multiplied by (b) the excess of (i) the greater of (A) the highest price per
share of Common Stock paid in connection with the Change in Control or (B) the
highest Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock in the 90-day period
preceding such Change in Control, over (ii) the purchase price of the option as
set forth in the underlying option agreement (the foregoing, a "Limited SAR").

SECTION 7 -- STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS

   (a) Stock appreciation rights may be granted independent of any stock option
or in conjunction with all or any part of any stock option granted under the
Plan, either at the same time as the stock option is granted or at any later
time during the term of the option. Stock appreciation rights shall be subject
to such terms and conditions as determined by the Committee, not inconsistent
with the provisions of the Plan.

   (b) Upon exercise, a stock appreciation right shall entitle the Participant
to receive from the Company an amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market
Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise of the stock
appreciation right over the per share grant or option price, as applicable (or
such lesser amount as the Committee may determine at the time of grant),
multiplied by the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the
stock appreciation right is exercised. Upon the exercise of a stock appreciation
right granted in connection with a stock option, the stock option shall be
canceled to the extent of the number of shares as to which the stock
appreciation right is exercised, and upon the exercise of a stock option granted
in connection with a stock appreciation right or the surrender of such stock
option, the stock appreciation right shall be canceled to the extent of the
number of shares as to which the stock option is exercised or surrendered. The
Committee shall determine whether the stock appreciation right shall be settled
in cash, Common Stock or a combination of cash and Common Stock.

   (c) A holder of a stock appreciation right may, in the discretion of the
Committee, have the right to surrender the stock appreciation right or any
portion thereof to the Company within 30 days following a Change in Control and
to receive from the Company in exchange therefor a cash payment in an amount
equal to (a) the number of shares of Common Stock under the stock appreciation
right which are being exercised, multiplied by (b) the excess of (i) the greater
of (A) the highest price per share of Common Stock paid in connection with the
Change in Control or (B) the highest Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock
in the 90 day period preceding such Change in Control, over (ii) the per share
grant price of the stock appreciation right as set forth in the underlying
agreement.

SECTION 8 -- OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS

   (a) Other Awards of Common Stock and Awards that are valued in whole or in
part by reference to, or otherwise based on, the Fair Market Value of Common
Stock (all such Awards being referred to herein as "Other Stock-based Awards"),
may be granted under the Plan in the discretion of the Committee. Other
Stock-based Awards shall be in such form as the Committee shall determine,
including without limitation, (i) the right to purchase shares of Common Stock,
(ii) shares of Common Stock subject to restrictions on transfer until the
completion of a specified period of service, the occurrence of an event or the
attainment of performance objectives, each as specified by the Committee, and
(iii) shares of Common Stock issuable upon the completion of a specified period
of service, the occurrence of an event or the attainment of performance
objectives, each as specified by the Committee. Other Stock-based Awards may be
granted alone or in addition to any other Awards made under the Plan. All
references in the preceding sentence to "specified period of service," in the
case of Other Stock-based Awards which (i) are not in lieu of cash compensation
to employees generally, (ii) are not paid to recruit a new employee in an amount
of less than 5% of the total awards available for grant under the Plan or (iii)
are not subject to the attainment of performance objectives, shall provide that
vesting, restrictions on transfer or some other comparable restriction which
incents continued performance of the recipient, will be for a period of not less
than three years (although vesting or lapsing may occur in tranches over the
three years), unless there is a Change in Control or the recipient retires,
becomes disabled or dies. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the


                                       3
<Page>

Committee shall have sole and absolute discretion to determine to whom and when
such Other Stock-based Awards will be made, the number of shares of Common Stock
to be awarded under (or otherwise related to) such Other Stock-based Awards and
all other terms and conditions of such Awards. The Committee shall determine
whether Other Stock-based Awards shall be settled in cash, Common Stock or a
combination of cash and Common Stock.

   (b) With respect to any restricted stock units granted under the Plan, the
obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary are limited solely to the delivery
of shares of Common Stock on the date when such shares of Common Stock are due
to be delivered under each Agreement, and in no event shall the Company or any
Subsidiary become obligated to pay cash in respect of such obligation (except
that the Company or any Subsidiary may pay to Participants amounts in cash in
respect of a restricted stock unit equal to cash dividends paid to a holder of
shares of Common Stock, for fractional shares or for any amounts payable in cash
upon the occurrence of a Change in Control).

   (c) The Committee shall establish the performance objective that must be
attained in order for the Company to grant other Other Stock-based Awards.
Accordingly, unless the Committee determines at the time of grant not to qualify
the award as performance based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code,
the performance objectives for awards made under the Plan will be based upon one
or more of the following criteria: (i) before or after tax net income; (ii)
earnings per share; (iii) book value per share; (iv) stock price; (v) return on
Stockholders' equity; (vi) the relative performance of peer group companies;
(vii) expense management; (viii) return on investment; (ix) improvements in
capital structure; (x) profitability of an identifiable business unit or
product; (xi) profit margins; (xii) budget comparison; and (xiii) total return
to Stockholders. Participants who have primary responsibility for a business
unit of the Company may be measured on business unit operating profit, business
unit operating profit as a percent of revenue, and/or measures related to
business unit profitability above its cost of capital, in place of some or all
of the corporate performance measures. The Committee must certify as to the
attainment of the applicable performance goals prior to payment of any Other
Stock-based Awards and may reduce the amount of any Other Stock-based Award.

SECTION 9 -- DIVIDENDS, EQUIVALENTS AND VOTING RIGHTS

   Awards other than stock options and stock appreciation rights may, at the
discretion of the Committee, provide the Participant with dividends or dividend
equivalents and voting rights prior to either vesting or earnout.

SECTION 10 -- AWARD AGREEMENTS

   Each Award under the Plan shall be evidenced by an agreement setting forth
the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as
determined by the Committee, which shall apply to such Award.

SECTION 11 -- WITHHOLDING

   The Company shall have the right to deduct from all amounts paid to any
Participant in cash (whether under this Plan or otherwise) any taxes required by
law to be withheld therefrom. In the case of payments of Awards in the form of
Common Stock, at the Committee's discretion, the Participant may be required to
pay to the Company the amount of any taxes required to be withheld with respect
to such Common Stock, or, in lieu thereof, the Company shall have the right to
retain the number of shares of Common Stock the Fair Market Value of which
equals the amount required to be withheld. Without limiting the foregoing, the
Committee may, in its discretion and subject to such conditions as it shall
impose, permit share withholding to be done at the Participant's election.

SECTION 12 -- NON-TRANSFERABILITY

   No Award shall be assignable or transferable, and no right or interest of any
Participant in any Award shall be subject to any lien, obligation or liability
of the Participant, except by will, the laws of descent and


                                       4
<Page>

distribution, or as otherwise set forth in the Award agreement.

SECTION 13 -- NO RIGHT TO EMPLOYMENT OR CONTINUED PARTICIPATION IN PLAN/NO
RIGHTS AS STOCKHOLDERS

   (a) No person shall have any claim or right to the grant of an Award, and the
grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be
retained in the employ of the Company or to be eligible for any subsequent
Awards. Further, the Company expressly reserves the right at any time to dismiss
a Participant free from any liability or any claim under the Plan, except as
provided herein or in any agreement entered into hereunder.

   (b) The grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the
rights of a stockholder of Common Stock unless and until shares of Common Stock
have been issued to Participants pursuant to Awards hereunder.

SECTION 14 -- ADJUSTMENT OF AND CHANGES IN COMMON STOCK

   In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of Common Stock by
reason of any Common Stock dividend or split, recapitalization, merger,
consolidation, spin-off, combination or exchange of shares or other corporate
exchange, or any distribution to stockholders of Common Stock other than regular
cash dividends, the Committee shall make a substitution or adjustment to the
number or kind of shares of Common Stock or other securities issued or reserved
for issuance pursuant to the Plan, and to outstanding Awards, as well as the
option price or other affected terms of such Awards as in its judgment shall be
necessary to preserve the Participant's rights substantially proportionate to
the rights existing prior to such event.

   Unless otherwise provided in an award agreement, after a merger of one or
more corporations into the Company or after a consolidation of the Company and
one or more corporations (a "Merger Event") in which the Company shall be the
surviving or resulting corporation, an Award holder shall, where applicable, at
the same cost, be entitled upon the exercise of an Award, to receive (subject to
any action required by Stockholders) such securities of the surviving or
resulting corporation as shall be equivalent to the shares underlying such Award
as nearly as practicable to the nearest whole number and class of shares of
stock or other securities.

   Unless otherwise provided in an award agreement, if the Company enters into
any agreement with respect to any transaction which would, if consummated,
result in a Merger Event in which the Company will not be the surviving
corporation, the Committee in its sole discretion and without liability to any
person shall determine what actions shall be taken with respect to outstanding
Awards, if any, including, without limitation, the payment of a cash amount in
exchange for the cancellation of an Award or the requiring of the issuance of
substitute Awards that will substantially preserve the value, rights and
benefits of any affected Awards previously granted hereunder as of the date of
the consummation of the Merger Event.

SECTION 15 -- AMENDMENT

   The Committee or the Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any
portion hereof at any time, provided that no amendment shall be made without
approval of the stockholders of the Company which shall (i) increase (except as
provided in Section 14 hereof) the total number of shares or the percentage of
shares reserved for issuance pursuant to the Plan; (ii) change the class of
Employees eligible to be Participants; or (iii) extend the date after which
Awards cannot be granted under the Plan.

SECTION 16 -- UNFUNDED STATUS OF PLAN

   The Plan is intended to constitute an "unfunded" plan for long-term incentive
compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant,
including any Participant optionee, by the Company, nothing herein contained
shall give any Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general


                                       5
<Page>

creditor of the Company. In its sole discretion, the Committee may authorize the
creation of trusts or other arrangements to meet the obligations created under
the Plan to deliver Common Stock or payments in lieu thereof or with respect to
options, stock appreciation rights and other Awards under the Plan; provided,
however, that the existence of such trusts or other arrangements is consistent
with the unfunded status of the Plan.

SECTION 17 -- EFFECTIVE DATE

   Subject to approval of the Stockholders of the Company, in accordance with
Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Code Sections 162(m)
and 422, this Plan shall be effective on April 10, 1996. No Awards may be
granted under the Plan on or after January 10, 2006.



                                       6
<Page>

                                    EXHIBIT A

   (a) "Award" shall mean any type of stock-based award granted pursuant to the
Plan.

   (b) "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company; provided,
however, that any action taken by a duly authorized committee of the Board
within the scope of authority delegated to such committee by the Board shall be
considered an action of the Board for purposes of this Plan.

   (c) "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence during the term of the Plan
of:

      a) The commencement (within the meaning of Rule 14d-2 under the Securities
   Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act")) of a tender offer for more than
   20% of the Company's outstanding shares of capital stock having ordinary
   voting power in the election of directors (the "Voting Securities");

      b) An acquisition (other than directly from the Company) of any voting
   securities of the Company by any "Person" (as the term person is used for
   purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act) immediately after
   which such Person has "Beneficial Ownership" (within, the meaning of Rule
   13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of the combined
   voting power of the Company's then outstanding Voting Securities; provided,
   however, in determining whether a Change in Control has occurred, Voting
   Securities which are acquired in a "Non-Control Acquisition" (as hereinafter
   defined) shall not constitute an acquisition which would cause a Change in
   Control. A "Non-Control Acquisition" shall mean an acquisition by (i) an
   employee benefit plan (or a trust forming a part thereof or a trustee thereof
   acting solely in its capacity as trustee) maintained by (A) the Company or
   (B) any corporation or other Person of which a majority of its voting power
   or its voting equity securities or equity interest is owned, directly or
   indirectly, by the Company (for purposes of this definition, a "Subsidiary"),
   (ii) the Company or its Subsidiaries, or (iii) any Person who files in
   connection with such acquisition a Schedule 13D which expressly disclaims any
   intention to seek control of the Company and does not expressly reserve the
   right to seek such control; provided, however, that any amendment to such
   statement of intent which either indicates an intention or reserves the right
   to seek control shall be deemed an "acquisition" of the securities of the
   Company reported in such filing as beneficially owned by such Person for
   purposes of this paragraph (b);

      c) The individuals who, as of the effective date of the 1994 initial
   public trading in Company shares, are members of the Board (the "Incumbent
   Board"), ceasing for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the
   members of the Board; provided, however, that if the election, or nomination
   for election by the Company's common Stockholders, of any new director was
   approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Board, such new
   director shall, for purposes of this Plan, be considered as a member of the
   Incumbent Board; provided further, however, that no individual shall be
   considered a member of the Incumbent Board if such individual initially
   assumed office as a result of either an actual or threatened "Election
   Contest" (as described in Rule 14a-11 promulgated under the Exchange Act or
   other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on
   behalf of a Person other than the Board (a "Proxy Contest") including by
   reason of any agreement intended to avoid or settle any Election Contest or
   Proxy Contest; or

      d) Approval by Stockholders of the Company of:

         (i) A merger, consolidation or reorganization involving the Company,
      unless such merger, consolidation or reorganization is a "Non-Control
      Transaction"; i.e., meets each of the requirements described in (A), (B)
      and (C) below:

            (A) the Stockholders of the Company, immediately before such merger,
         consolidation or reorganization, own, directly or indirectly,
         immediately following such merger, consolidation or reorganization, at
         least the Applicable Minimum Percentage (as defined below) of the
         combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the
         corporation resulting from such merger or consolidation or
         reorganization (the "Surviving Corporation") in substantially


                                       7
<Page>

         the same proportion as their ownership of the Voting Securities
         immediately before such merger, consolidation or reorganization;

            (B) the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board
         immediately prior to the execution of the agreement providing for such
         merger, consolidation or reorganization constitute at least the
         Applicable Minimum Proportion (as defined below) of the members of the
         board of directors of the Surviving Corporation immediately following
         the consummation of such merger, consolidation or reorganization; and

            (C) no Person other than the Company, any Subsidiary, any employee
         benefit plan (or any trust forming a part thereof or a trustee thereof
         acting solely in its capacity as trustee) maintained by the Company,
         the Surviving Corporation, or any Subsidiary, or any Person who,
         immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or reorganization had
         Beneficial Ownership of 20% or more of the then outstanding Voting
         Securities has Beneficial Ownership of 20% or more of the combined
         voting power of the Surviving Corporation's then outstanding voting
         securities immediately following the consummation of such merger,
         consolidation or reorganization;

         (ii)  A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or

         (iii) An agreement for the sale or other disposition of all or
      substantially all of the assets of the Company to any Person (other than a
      transfer to a Subsidiary).

     With respect to paragraph (d)(i) above, "Applicable Minimum Percentage"
   means (1) eighty percent (80%) with respect to Awards made prior to December
   11, 2000, and (2) fifty percent (50%) with respect to Awards made on or after
   December 11, 2000; and "Applicable Minimum Proportion" means (1) two-thirds
   with respect to Awards made prior to December 11, 2000, and (2) a majority
   with respect to Awards made on or after December 11, 2000.

     Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to
   occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") acquired Beneficial
   Ownership of more than the permitted amount of the outstanding Voting
   Securities as a result of the acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company
   which, by reducing the number of Voting Securities outstanding, increases the
   proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Persons,
   provided that if a Change in Control would occur (but for the operation of
   this sentence) as a result of the acquisition of Voting Securities by the
   Company, and thereafter such Beneficial Owner acquires any additional Voting
   Securities which increases the percentage of the then outstanding Voting
   Securities Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, then a Change in Control
   shall occur.

   (d) "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as from time to time
amended.

   (e) "Committee" shall mean the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the
Company.

   (f) "Common Stock" shall mean the common stock of the Company, $.10 par
value.

   (g) "Company" shall mean Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and, except as
otherwise specified in this Plan in a particular context, any successor thereto,
whether by merger, consolidation, purchase of substantially all its assets or
otherwise.

   (h) "Executive Officer" shall mean a Participant who is subject to the
requirements of Sections 16(a) and 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

   (i) "Fair Market Value" on any date means the closing price of the shares on
such date on the principal national securities exchange on which such shares are
listed or admitted to trading (or, if such exchange is not open on such date,
the immediately preceding date on which such exchange is open), the arithmetic
mean of the per share closing bid price and per share closing asked price on
such date as quoted


                                       8
<Page>

on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System, or
such other market in which such prices are regularly quoted, or, if there have
been no published bid or asked quotations with respect to such shares on such
date, the Fair Market Value shall be the value established by the Committee in
good faith and, in the case of an incentive stock option, in accordance with
Section 422 of the Code.

   (j) "Other Stock-based Award" shall mean any of those Awards described in
Section 8 hereof.

   (k) "Participant" shall mean a member of the Corporate Management Committee
or the Operating Committee (and successor entities of such committees), a Senior
Vice President, a Managing Director or an officer holding a title senior to
Managing Director who is selected by the Committee to receive an Award under the
Plan.

   (l) "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation which at the time qualifies as a
subsidiary of the Company under the definition of "subsidiary corporation" in
Section 424(f) of the Code, as amended from time to time.




                                       9

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.10
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>a2071673zex-10_10.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.10
<TEXT>
<Page>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.10

                          LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC.
                             EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN
                        AS AMENDED THROUGH MARCH 31, 2001

SECTION 1 -- PURPOSE

   The purpose of the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Employee Incentive Plan (the
"Plan") is to strengthen Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (the "Company") by
providing selected employees of the Company with the opportunity to acquire a
proprietary and vested interest in the growth and performance of the Company,
thus generating an increased incentive to contribute to the Company's future
success and prosperity, enhancing the value of the Company for the benefit of
stockholders, and enhancing the Company's ability to attract and retain
individuals of exceptional talent.

   The purposes of the Plan are to be achieved through the grant of various
types of stock-based awards.

SECTION 2 -- DEFINITIONS

   For purposes of the Plan, the capitalized terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in Exhibit A hereof.

SECTION 3 -- SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN

   (a) Shares of Common Stock which may be issued under the Plan may be either
authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock or authorized and issued shares
of Common Stock held in the Company's treasury, or any combination thereof.
Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 14, the number of shares of Common
Stock with respect to which Awards (whether distributable in shares of Common
Stock or in cash) may be granted under the Plan shall be 156 million shares. The
maximum number of shares of Common Stock available for stock options, stock
appreciation rights or Other Stock-based Awards that may be granted to a
Participant during a calendar year shall not exceed two million.

   (b) Notwithstanding the last sentence of Section 3(a), to the extent that the
number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted
under the Plan to an individual in any calendar year exceeds the number of
shares of Common Stock with respect to which Awards were granted under the Plan
during that calendar year, such excess shall be available for grant under the
Plan in succeeding calendar years.

   (c) In the event that any other Award subject to repurchase or forfeiture
rights is reacquired by the Company or if any Award is canceled, terminates or
expires unexercised (except with respect to a stock option which terminates on
the exercise of a stock appreciation right) for any reason under the Plan, any
Common Stock allocated in connection with such Award shall thereafter again be
available for grant pursuant to the Plan.

SECTION 4 -- ELIGIBILITY

   Selected employees, officers, directors and consultants to the Company and
its subsidiaries are eligible to be Participants in the Plan.

SECTION 5 -- ADMINISTRATION

   The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have the power
to select those Participants who shall receive Awards and to determine the terms
of such Awards. As to the selection of, and the terms of Awards granted the
Committee may delegate any or all of its responsibilities to officers or
employees of the Company.

<Page>

   The Committee's authority hereunder shall include, without limitation, the
establishment of vesting schedules or exercisability in installments with
respect to Awards. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, accelerate or
waive vesting or exercise periods or the lapse of restrictions on all or any
portion of any Award, or extend the exercisability (including to extend or
provide for post-termination exercisability) of stock options or stock
appreciation rights; provided that such exercisability shall not extend past ten
years from the date of grant of any incentive stock options.

   Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall be authorized to
interpret the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind any rules and regulations
relating to the Plan, to determine the terms and provisions of any agreements
entered into hereunder, and to make all other determinations necessary or
advisable for the administration of the Plan. The Committee may correct any
defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any
Award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable to carry the Plan
or any such Award into effect. The determinations of the Committee in the
administration of the Plan, as described herein, shall be final and conclusive.

   The validity, construction and effect of the Plan and any rules and
regulations relating to the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws
of the State of Delaware and applicable Federal law.

SECTION 6 -- STOCK OPTIONS

   (a) Any stock options granted under the Plan shall be in such form as the
Committee may from time to time approve and shall be subject to the terms and
conditions provided herein and such additional terms and conditions not
inconsistent with the terms of the Plan as the Committee shall deem desirable.

   (b) Stock options may be granted to any Participant. Each grant of stock
options shall specify whether the underlying options are intended to be
incentive stock options or non-incentive stock options. In the case of incentive
stock options, the terms and conditions of such grants shall be subject to and
comply with such requirements as may be prescribed by Section 422(b) of the
Code, as from time to time amended, and any implementing regulations, including,
but not limited to, the requirement that such stock options are exercisable
during the Participant's lifetime only by such Participant. The Committee shall
establish the option price at the time each stock option is granted, which price
shall not be less than 100 percent of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock
on the date of grant.

   (c) No stock options may be exercisable later than ten years after their date
of grant. The option price of each share of Common Stock as to which a stock
option is exercised shall be paid in full at the time of such exercise. Such
payment may be made at the sole discretion of the Committee, pursuant to and in
accordance with criteria and guidelines established by the Committee (which
criteria and guidelines may be different for executive officers and for other
Participants), as the same may be modified from time to time, (i) in cash, (ii)
by tender of shares of Common Stock already owned by the Participant, valued at
Fair Market Value as of the date of exercise, (iii) if authorized by the
Committee, by withholding pursuant to the election of the Participant, which
election is subject to the disapproval of the Committee, from those shares that
would otherwise be obtained upon exercise of the option a number of shares
having a Fair Market Value equal to the option price, (iv) if authorized by the
Committee, and in combination with services rendered by the exercising
Participant, by delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together with
irrevocable instructions to a securities broker (or, in the case of pledges,
lender) approved by the Company to, (a) sell shares of Common Stock subject to
the option and to deliver promptly to the Company a portion of the proceeds of
such sale transaction on behalf of the exercising Participant to pay the option
price, or (b) pledge shares of Common Stock subject to the option to a margin
account maintained with such broker or lender, as security for a loan, and such
broker or lender, pursuant to irrevocable instructions, delivers to the Company
the loan proceeds, at the time of exercise to pay the option price, (v) by any
combination of (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) above or (vi) by other means that the
Committee deems appropriate.

   (d) A stock option holder may, in the discretion of the Committee, have the
right to surrender a stock option or any portion thereof to the Company within
30 days following a Change in Control and to receive from the Company in
exchange therefor a cash payment in an amount equal to (a) the number of
unexercised shares of Common Stock under the option which are being surrendered
multiplied by (b) the


                                       2
<Page>

excess of (i) the greater of (A) the highest price per share of Common Stock
paid in connection with the Change in Control or (B) the highest Fair Market
Value per share of Common Stock in the 90-day period preceding such Change in
Control, over (ii) the purchase price of the option as set forth in the
underlying option agreement (the foregoing, a "Limited SAR").

SECTION 7 -- STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS

   (a) Stock appreciation rights may be granted independent of any stock option
or in conjunction with all or any part of any stock option granted under the
Plan, either at the same time as the stock option is granted or at any later
time during the term of the option. Stock appreciation rights shall be subject
to such terms and conditions as determined by the Committee, not inconsistent
with the provisions of the Plan.

   (b) Upon exercise, a stock appreciation right shall entitle the Participant
to receive from the Company an amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market
Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise of the stock
appreciation right over the per share grant or option price, as applicable (or
such lesser amount as the Committee may determine at the time of grant),
multiplied by the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the
stock appreciation right is exercised. Upon the exercise of a stock appreciation
right granted in connection with a stock option, the stock option shall be
canceled to the extent of the number of shares as to which the stock
appreciation right is exercised, and upon the exercise of a stock option granted
in connection with a stock appreciation right or the surrender of such stock
option, the stock appreciation right shall be canceled to the extent of the
number of shares as to which the stock option is exercised or surrendered. The
Committee shall determine whether the stock appreciation right shall be settled
in cash, Common Stock or a combination of cash and Common Stock.

   (c) A holder of a stock appreciation right may, in the discretion of the
Committee, have the right to surrender the stock appreciation right or any
portion thereof to the Company within 30 days following a Change in Control and
to receive from the Company in exchange therefor a cash payment in an amount
equal to (a) the number of shares of Common Stock under the stock appreciation
right which are being exercised, multiplied by (b) the excess of (i) the greater
of (A) the highest price per share of Common Stock paid in connection with the
Change in Control or (B) the highest Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock
in the 90 day period preceding such Change in Control, over (ii) the per share
grant price of the stock appreciation right as set forth in the underlying
agreement.

SECTION 8 -- OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS

   (a) Other Awards of Common Stock and Awards that are valued in whole or in
part by reference to, or otherwise based on, the Fair Market Value of Common
Stock (all such Awards being referred to herein as "Other Stock-based Awards"),
may be granted under the Plan in the discretion of the Committee. Other
Stock-based Awards shall be in such form as the Committee shall determine,
including without limitation, (i) the right to purchase shares of Common Stock,
(ii) shares of Common Stock subject to restrictions on transfer until the
completion of a specified period of service, the occurrence of an event or the
attainment of performance objectives, each as specified by the Committee, and
(iii) shares of Common Stock issuable upon the completion of a specified period
of service, the occurrence of an event or the attainment of performance
objectives, each as specified by the Committee. Other Stock-based Awards may be
granted alone or in addition to any other Awards made under the Plan. All
references in the preceding sentence to "specified period of service," in the
case of Other Stock-based Awards which (i) are not in lieu of cash compensation
to employees generally, (ii) are not paid to recruit a new employee in an amount
of less than 5% of the total awards available for grant under the Plan or (iii)
are not subject to the attainment of performance objectives, shall provide that
vesting, restrictions on transfer or some other comparable restriction which
incents continued performance of the recipient, will be for a period of not less
than three years (although vesting or lapsing may occur in tranches over the
three years), unless there is a Change in Control or the recipient retires,
becomes disabled or dies. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee
shall have sole and absolute discretion to determine to whom and when such Other
Stock-based Awards will be made, the number of shares of Common Stock to be
awarded under (or otherwise related to) such Other Stock-based Awards and all
other terms and conditions of such Awards. The Committee shall determine whether
Other Stock-based Awards shall be settled in cash, Common Stock or a


                                       3
<Page>

combination of cash and Common Stock.

   (b) With respect to any restricted stock units granted under the Plan, the
obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary are limited solely to the delivery
of shares of Common Stock on the date when such shares of Common Stock are due
to be delivered under each Agreement, and in no event shall the Company or any
Subsidiary become obligated to pay cash in respect of such obligation (except
that the Company or any Subsidiary may pay to Participants amounts in cash in
respect of a restricted stock unit equal to cash dividends paid to a holder of
shares of Common Stock, for fractional shares or for any amounts payable in cash
upon the occurrence of a Change in Control).

SECTION 9 -- DIVIDENDS, EQUIVALENTS AND VOTING RIGHTS

   Awards other than stock options and stock appreciation rights may, at the
discretion of the Committee, provide the Participant with dividends or dividend
equivalents and voting rights prior to either vesting or earnout.

SECTION 10 -- AWARD AGREEMENTS

   Each Award under the Plan shall be evidenced by an agreement setting forth
the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as
determined by the Committee, which shall apply to such Award.

SECTION 11 -- WITHHOLDING

   The Company shall have the right to deduct from all amounts paid to any
Participant in cash (whether under this Plan or otherwise) any taxes required by
law to be withheld therefrom. In the case of payments of Awards in the form of
Common Stock, at the Committee's discretion, the Participant may be required to
pay to the Company the amount of any taxes required to be withheld with respect
to such Common Stock, or, in lieu thereof, the Company shall have the right to
retain the number of shares of Common Stock the Fair Market Value of which
equals the amount required to be withheld. Without limiting the foregoing, the
Committee may, in its discretion and subject to such conditions as it shall
impose, permit share withholding to be done at the Participant's election.

SECTION 12 -- NON-TRANSFERABILITY

   No Award shall be assignable or transferable, and no right or interest of any
Participant in any Award shall be subject to any lien, obligation or liability
of the Participant, except by will, the laws of descent and distribution, or as
otherwise set forth in the Award agreement.

SECTION 13 -- NO RIGHT TO EMPLOYMENT OR CONTINUED PARTICIPATION IN PLAN/NO
RIGHTS AS STOCKHOLDERS

   (a) No person shall have any claim or right to the grant of an Award, and the
grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be
retained in the employ of the Company or to be eligible for any subsequent
Awards. Further, the Company expressly reserves the right at any time to dismiss
a Participant free from any liability or any claim under the Plan, except as
provided herein or in any agreement entered into hereunder.

   (b) The grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the
rights of a stockholder of Common Stock unless and until shares of Common Stock
have been issued to Participants pursuant to Awards hereunder.

SECTION 14 -- ADJUSTMENT OF AND CHANGES IN COMMON STOCK

   In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of Common Stock by
reason of any Common Stock dividend or split, recapitalization, merger,
consolidation, spin-off, combination or exchange of shares or


                                       4
<Page>

other corporate exchange, or any distribution to stockholders of Common Stock
other than regular cash dividends, the Committee shall make a substitution or
adjustment to the number or kind of shares of Common Stock or other securities
issued or reserved for issuance pursuant to the Plan, and to outstanding Awards,
as well as the option price or other affected terms of such Awards as in its
judgment shall be necessary to preserve the Participant's rights substantially
proportionate to the rights existing prior to such event.

   Unless otherwise provided in an award agreement, after a merger of one or
more corporations into the Company or after a consolidation of the Company and
one or more corporations (a "Merger Event") in which the Company shall be the
surviving or resulting corporation, an Award holder shall, where applicable, at
the same cost, be entitled upon the exercise of an Award, to receive (subject to
any action required by Stockholders) such securities of the surviving or
resulting corporation as shall be equivalent to the shares underlying such Award
as nearly as practicable to the nearest whole number and class of shares of
stock or other securities.

   Unless otherwise provided in an award agreement, if the Company enters into
any agreement with respect to any transaction which would, if consummated,
result in a Merger Event in which the Company will not be the surviving
corporation, the Committee in its sole discretion and without liability to any
person shall determine what actions shall be taken with respect to outstanding
Awards, if any, including, without limitation, the payment of a cash amount in
exchange for the cancellation of an Award or the requiring of the issuance of
substitute Awards that will substantially preserve the value, rights and
benefits of any affected Awards previously granted hereunder as of the date of
the consummation of the Merger Event.

SECTION 15 -- AMENDMENT

   The Committee or the Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any
portion hereof at any time.

SECTION 16 -- UNFUNDED STATUS OF PLAN

   The Plan is intended to constitute an "unfunded" plan for long-term incentive
compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant,
including any Participant optionee, by the Company, nothing herein contained
shall give any Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general
creditor of the Company. In its sole discretion, the Committee may authorize the
creation of trusts or other arrangements to meet the obligations created under
the Plan to deliver Common Stock or payments in lieu thereof or with respect to
options, stock appreciation rights and other Awards under the Plan; provided,
however, that the existence of such trusts or other arrangements is consistent
with the unfunded status of the Plan.

SECTION 17 -- EFFECTIVE DATE

   This Plan shall be effective on April 5, 1995. No Awards may be granted under
the Plan on or after April 4, 2005.



                                       5
<Page>

                                    EXHIBIT A

   (a) "Award" shall mean any type of stock-based award granted pursuant to the
Plan.

   (b) "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company; provided,
however, that any action taken by a duly authorized committee of the Board
within the scope of authority delegated to such committee by the Board shall be
considered an action of the Board for purposes of this Plan.

   (c) "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence during the term of the Plan
of:

      a) The commencement (within the meaning of Rule 14d-2 under the Securities
   Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act")) of a tender offer for more than
   20% of the Company's outstanding shares of capital stock having ordinary
   voting power in the election of directors (the "Voting Securities");

      b) An acquisition (other than directly from the Company) of any voting
   securities of the Company by any "Person" (as the term person is used for
   purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act) immediately after
   which such Person has "Beneficial Ownership" (within the meaning of Rule
   13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of the combined
   voting power of the Company's then outstanding Voting Securities; provided,
   however, in determining whether a Change in Control has occurred, Voting
   Securities which are acquired in a "Non-Control Acquisition" (as hereinafter
   defined) shall not constitute an acquisition which would cause a Change in
   Control. A "Non-Control Acquisition" shall mean an acquisition by (i) an
   employee benefit plan (or a trust forming a part thereof or a trustee thereof
   acting solely in its capacity as trustee) maintained by (A) the Company or
   (B) any corporation or other Person of which a majority of its voting power
   or its voting equity securities or equity interest is owned, directly or
   indirectly, by the Company (for purposes of this definition, a "Subsidiary"),
   (ii) the Company or its Subsidiaries, or (iii) any Person who files in
   connection with such acquisition a Schedule 13D which expressly disclaims any
   intention to seek control of the Company and does not expressly reserve the
   right to seek such control; provided, however, that any amendment to such
   statement of intent which either indicates an intention or reserves the right
   to seek control shall be deemed an "acquisition" of the securities of the
   Company reported in such filing as beneficially owned by such Person for
   purposes of this paragraph (b);

      c) The individuals who, as of the effective date of the 1994 initial
   public trading in Company shares, are members of the Board (the "Incumbent
   Board"), ceasing for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the
   members of the Board; provided, however, that if the election, or nomination
   for election by the Company's common Stockholders, of any new director was
   approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Board, such new
   director shall, for purposes of this Plan, be considered as a member of the
   Incumbent Board; provided further, however, that no individual shall be
   considered a member of the Incumbent Board if such individual initially
   assumed office as a result of either an actual or threatened "Election
   Contest" (as described in Rule 14a-11 promulgated under the Exchange Act or
   other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on
   behalf of a Person other than the Board (a "Proxy Contest") including by
   reason of any agreement intended to avoid or settle any Election Contest or
   Proxy Contest; or

      d) Approval by Stockholders of the Company of:

      (i) A merger, consolidation or reorganization involving the Company,
   unless such merger, consolidation or reorganization is a "Non-Control
   Transaction"; i.e., meets each of the requirements described in (A), (B) and
   (C) below:

         (A) the Stockholders of the Company, immediately before such merger,
      consolidation or reorganization, own, directly or indirectly, immediately
      following such merger, consolidation or reorganization, at least the
      Applicable Minimum Percentage (as defined below) of the combined voting
      power of the outstanding voting securities of the corporation resulting
      from such merger or consolidation or reorganization (the "Surviving
      Corporation") in substantially the same proportion


                                       6
<Page>

      as their ownership of the Voting Securities immediately before such
      merger, consolidation or reorganization;

         (B) the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board immediately
      prior to the execution of the agreement providing for such merger,
      consolidation or reorganization constitute at least the Applicable Minimum
      Proportion (as defined below) of the members of the board of directors of
      the Surviving Corporation immediately following the consummation of such
      merger, consolidation or reorganization; and

         (C) no Person other than the Company, any Subsidiary, any employee
      benefit plan (or any trust forming a part thereof or a trustee thereof
      acting solely in its capacity as trustee) maintained by the Company, the
      Surviving Corporation, or any Subsidiary, or any Person who, immediately
      prior to such merger, consolidation or reorganization had Beneficial
      Ownership of 20% or more of the then outstanding Voting Securities has
      Beneficial Ownership of 20% or more of the combined voting power of the
      Surviving Corporation's then outstanding voting securities immediately
      following the consummation of such merger, consolidation or
      reorganization;

      (ii)  A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or

      (iii) An agreement for the sale or other disposition of all or
   substantially all of the assets of the Company to any Person (other than a
   transfer to a Subsidiary).

   With respect to paragraph (d)(i) above, "Applicable Minimum Percentage" means
(1) eighty percent (80%) with respect to Awards made prior to November 14, 2000,
and (2) fifty percent (50%) with respect to Awards made on or after November 14,
2000; and "Applicable Minimum Proportion" means (1) two-thirds with respect to
Awards made prior to November 14, 2000, and (2) a majority with respect to
Awards made on or after November 14, 2000.

   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to
occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") acquired Beneficial
Ownership of more than the permitted amount of the outstanding Voting Securities
as a result of the acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company which, by
reducing the number of Voting Securities outstanding, increases the proportional
number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Persons, provided that if a
Change in Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) as a
result of the acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company, and thereafter
such Beneficial Owner acquires any additional Voting Securities which increases
the percentage of the then outstanding Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by
the Subject Person, then a Change in Control shall occur.

   (d) "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as from time to time
amended.

   (e) "Committee" shall mean the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the
Company.

   (f) "Common Stock" shall mean the common stock of the Company, $.10 par
value.

   (g) "Company" shall mean Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and, except as
otherwise specified in this Plan in a particular context, any successor thereto,
whether by merger, consolidation, purchase of substantially all its assets or
otherwise.

   (h) "Fair Market Value" on any date means the closing price of the shares on
such date on the principal national securities exchange on which such shares are
listed or admitted to trading (or, if such exchange is not open on such date,
the immediately preceding date on which such exchange is open), the arithmetic
mean of the per share closing bid price and per share closing asked price on
such date as quoted on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated
Quotation System, or such other market in which such prices are regularly
quoted, or, if there have been no published bid or asked quotations with respect
to such shares on such date, the Fair Market Value shall be the value
established by the Committee in good faith and, in the case of an incentive
stock option, in accordance with Section 422 of the Code.


                                       7
<Page>

   (i) "Other Stock-based Award" shall mean any of those Awards described in
Section 8 hereof.

   (j) "Participant" shall mean an employee, officer, director or consultant of
the Company.

   (k) "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation which at the time qualifies as a
subsidiary of the Company under the definition of "subsidiary corporation" in
Section 424(f) of the Code, as amended from time to time.



                                       8

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.15
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>a2071673zex-10_15.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.15
<TEXT>
<Page>

                                                                   Exhibit 10.15


                                                                  EXECUTION COPY



                           PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

                                     Between

                                 MSDW 745, LLC,

                                     SELLER,


                                       and


                                   LB 745 LLC


                                   PURCHASER.



                                    PREMISES:
                               745 Seventh Avenue
                               New York, New York


                                October 19, 2001


<Page>

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----

1.     DEFINITIONS...........................................................1


2.     PURCHASE AND SALE.....................................................4


3.     ACCESS TO PREMISES....................................................5


4.     PURCHASE PRICE AND DEPOSIT............................................7


5.     STATUS OF THE TITLE...................................................8


6.     TITLE INSURANCE; LIENS................................................9


7.     APPORTIONMENTS........................................................12


8.     PROPERTY NOT INCLUDED IN SALE.........................................14


9.     CERTAIN COVENANTS OF SELLER...........................................14


10.    ASSIGNMENTS BY SELLER AND ASSUMPTIONS BY PURCHASER; EMPLOYEES.........15


11.    REPRESENTATIONS.......................................................16


12.    DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION................................................21


13.    CONDEMNATION..........................................................22


14.    BROKERS AND ADVISORS..................................................24


15.    TAX REDUCTION PROCEEDINGS.............................................24


16.    TRANSFER TAXES, RECORDING CHARGES AND SALES TAXES.....................25


17.    CONDITIONS OF CLOSING; DELIVERIES TO BE MADE ON THE CLOSING DATE......26


18.    CLOSING DATE..........................................................30


19.    NOTICES...............................................................31


20.    DEFAULT BY PURCHASER OR SELLER........................................32


21.    FIRPTA COMPLIANCE.....................................................33


                                      -i-
<Page>

                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----

22.    ENTIRE AGREEMENT......................................................33


23.    AMENDMENTS............................................................34


24.    WAIVER................................................................34


25.    PARTIAL INVALIDITY....................................................34


26.    SECTION HEADINGS......................................................34


27.    GOVERNING LAW.........................................................34


28.    PARTIES; ASSIGNMENT AND RECORDING.....................................34


29.    CONFIDENTIALITY AND PRESS RELEASES....................................35


30.    FURTHER ASSURANCES....................................................36


31.    THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARY...............................................36


32.    JURISDICTION AND SERVICE OF PROCESS...................................36


33.    WAIVER OF TRIAL BY JURY...............................................37


34.    MISCELLANEOUS.........................................................37


35.    ORGANIZATIONAL REPRESENTATIONS........................................38


36.    CERTAIN GROUND LEASE PROVISIONS.......................................38


37.    CONDITION OF PREMISES AT CLOSING......................................40


38.    LIMITATION ON EMPLOYMENT..............................................41


                                      -ii-
<Page>


Schedules

A.       Description of the Land
B.       Easements, Conditions, Restrictions and Encumbrances
C.       Assumed Contracts
D.       Building Plans
E.       Interior Improvement Plans
F.       FF&E Specifications
G.       Hoist Related Work
H.       Employees
I.       Litigation Schedule
J.       Insurance Schedule
K.       IT Equipment Specifications
L.       Exterior Signs Specifications
M.       Notice to Landlord
N.       [Intentionally Deleted]
O.       Global IT Agreements



Exhibits

1.       Form of Deed
2.       Form of Assignment and Assumption of Ground Lease
3.       Form of Bill of Sale
4.       Form of FIRPTA Affidavit
5.       Form of Assignment and Assumption of JV Option Agreement
6.       Form of Assignment of Option to Lease Space Agreement
7.       Form of Assignment and Assumption of Contracts
8.       Form of General Assignment and Assumption Agreement
9.       Form of Substitute Guaranty
10.      Form of Opinion
11.      Form of Assignment of Management Agreement
12.      Form of Assignment of Plaza Agreement
13.      Form of Assignment of Publicity Agreement
14.      Form of Assignment of Rental Agency Agreement
15.      Agreement as to Post Closing Obligations


                                     -iii-
<Page>

         PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT (this "AGREEMENT") made as of the 19day of
October, 2001 between MSDW 745, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company,
having an address at 1633 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10036 ("SELLER") and LB 745
LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, having an address at 101 Hudson
Street, Jersey City, New Jersey 07302 ("PURCHASER").

                              W I T N E S S E T H :
                              - - - - - - - - - -

         WHEREAS, Seller is (i) the tenant under a ground lease (the "GROUND
LEASE") dated November 19, 1998 between Rock-Forty-Ninth LLC ("LESSOR"), as
landlord, and Seller, as tenant, of certain plots, pieces and parcels of land
("Land") more particularly described in SCHEDULE A annexed hereto and known as
745 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York (the Land and Seller's interest therein
under the Ground Lease, the "GROUND LEASEHOLD"), (ii) the owner of the building
and other improvements (collectively, the "BUILDING") located on the Land, (iii)
the owner of certain interior improvements affixed to and located on the floors
of the Building (the "INTERIOR IMPROVEMENTS"), (iv) the owner of certain
furniture fixtures and equipment located or to be located in the Building upon
the completion of the Interior Improvements (the "FF&E"), (v) the owner of
certain technological equipment (the "IT EQUIPMENT"), and (vi) the owner of
certain exterior signage (the "EXTERIOR SIGNS") (the Ground Leasehold, the
Building, the Interior Improvements and the Exterior Signs are hereinafter
sometimes collectively referred to as the "PREMISES" and the FF&E and IT
Equipment are sometimes collectively hereinafter referred to as the "PERSONAL
PROPERTY");

         WHEREAS, Seller desires to cause the sale, assignment, transfer and
conveyance of its interests in and to the Premises and the Personal Property to
Purchaser in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, and
Purchaser desires to purchase such interests from Seller upon the terms more
particularly set forth in this Agreement;

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual
covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree
as follows:

l.       DEFINITIONS.

         2001/2002 Tax Year                           Section 15
         AAA                                          Section 12(c)
         Adjourned Closing Date                       Section 6(a)
         Agreement                                    Preamble
         Apportionment Date                           Section 7(a)
         Approvals                                    Section 37

                                      -1-
<Page>

         Approved Commitment Items                    Section 5(b)
         Assumed Contract                             Section 10(a)(ii)
         Base Building Punchlist                      Section 37(b)
         Broker                                       Section 14(a)
         Building                                     Recitals
         Building Plans                               Section 11(c)(ii)
         business day                                 Section 4(c)
         Cap Amount                                   Section 11(c)(xiii)
         Certification                                Section 17(a)(ii)
         Closing                                      Section 18
         Closing Date                                 Section 18
         Commitment                                   Section 6(a)
         Company                                      Section 6(a)
         Confidentiality Agreement                    Section 29(a)
         Contractors                                  Section 3
         Damages                                      Section 11(c)(xiii)
         Deposit                                      Section 4(a)
         Development Agreement                        Section 36(b)
         Disclosed Survey Items                       Section 5(a)
         Employment Contacts                          Section 10(b)
         Escrow Agent                                 Section 4(a)
         Excluded Personalty                          Section 8
         Exculpated Parties                           Section 11(a)
         Existing Guaranty                            Section 17(c)(iii)
         Exterior Signs                               Recitals
         FF&E                                         Recitals
         FF&E Contracts                               Section 10(a)(ii)
         FF&E Specifications                          Section 11(c)(iv)
         Final Closing Statement                      Section 7(e)
         FIRPTA                                       Section 21
         Full Stop Election                           Section 37(b)
         Global Agreements                            Section 8
         Ground Lease                                 Recitals
         Ground Leasehold                             Recitals
         Hoist Related Work                           Section 37(a)
         Interference Damages                         Section 20(a)
         Interior Improvement Plans                   Section 11(c)(iii)
         Interior Improvements                        Recitals
         IT Contracts                                 Section 10(a)(ii)
         IT Equipment                                 Recitals
         JV Option Agreement                          Section 2
         Land                                         Recitals


                                      -2-
<Page>

         Landlord                                     Section 11(c)(viii)
         Later Closing Date                           Section 18
         Lessor                                       Recitals
         Letter Agreement                             Section 2
         LHI                                          Section 17(c)(iii)
         Management Agreement                         Section 2
         Manager                                      Section 10(b)
         MS                                           Section 2
         MSDW                                         Section 17(c)(iii)
         New Closing Notice                           Section 6(d)
         Notices                                      Section 19
         Non-Objectionable Encumbrances               Section 6(a)
         Operative Documents                          Section 2
         Objection Date                               Section 6(a)
         Option to Lease Space Agreement              Section 2
         Outside Date                                 Section 11
         Percentage Share                             Section 16(a)
         Permitted Encumbrances                       Section 5
         Plans                                        Section 37(a)
         Plaza Agreement                              Section 2
         Pledge                                       Section 2
         Post Closing Agreement                       Section 4(b)(ii)
         Premises                                     Recitals
         Preliminary Closing Statement                Section 7(e)
         Proceeding                                   Section 11(c)(xiii)
         Project                                      Section 37(a)
         Project Personnel                            Section 38
         Property                                     Section 2
         Property Taxes                               Section 7(a)(ii)
         Publicity Agreement                          Section 2
         Purchaser                                    Preamble
         Purchase Price                               Section 4
         Purchaser's Representatives                  Section 3(a)
         REBNY                                        Section 12(c)
         Rental Agency Agreement                      Section 2
         RET                                          Section 16(a)
         RFN                                          Section 2
         ROFO                                         Section 36(a)
         RP                                           Section 2
         RPT                                          Section 16(a)
         Rep Claim                                    Section 11(c)(xiii)
         Representation                               Section 11(c)


                                      -3-
<Page>

         Scheduled Closing Date                       Section 18
         Seller                                       Preamble
         Seller Knowledge Individuals                 Section 11(c)(xiii)
         Seller Related Parties                       Section 3(c)
         Stop Work Notice                             Section 37(b)
         Subway Agreement                             Section 6(a)
         Subway Work                                  Section 37(a)
         Taking                                       Section 13(a)
         Termination Event                            Section 10(b)
         Termination Payment                          Section 10(b)
         Title Cure Notice                            Section 6(a)
         Title Cure Period                            Section 6(a)
         Turner                                       Section 37(b)
         Update Objections                            Section 6(a)
         Utilities                                    Section 7(c)

2.       PURCHASE AND SALE.

                  Seller agrees to sell, assign and convey to Purchaser, and
Purchaser agrees to purchase from Seller, subject to the terms and conditions of
this Agreement, all of Seller's right, title and interest, if any, in and to and
under (i) the Ground Leasehold, (ii) the Building; (iii) the Interior
Improvements; (iv) the FF&E; (v) the IT Equipment; (vi) the Exterior Signs;
(vii) the JV Option Agreement between Landlord and Seller dated November 19,
1998 (the "JV OPTION AGREEMENT") and Purchaser shall assume same from and after
the Closing Date; (viii) the Option to Lease Space Agreement (the "OPTION TO
LEASE SPACE AGREEMENT") between Landlord, Seller and Morgan Stanley & Co.
Incorporated ("MS") dated November 19, 1998 and Purchaser shall assume same from
and after the Closing Date, (ix) the Management Agreement dated November 19,
1998 between Seller and Rockefeller Center Management Corporation (the
"MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT") and Purchaser shall assume same from and after the
Closing Date; (x) the Plaza Agreement dated November 19, 1998 between Seller and
Landlord (the "PLAZA AGREEMENT") and Purchaser shall assume same from and after
the Closing Date; (xi) the Publicity Agreement dated November 19, 1998 between
Seller, Rockefeller Center Management Corporation, Rockefeller Group Development
Corporation, Rockefeller Forty-Ninth LLC and Rockefeller Group, Inc. (the
"PUBLICITY AGREEMENT") and Purchaser shall assume same from and after the
Closing Date; (xii) the Rental Agency Agreement dated March 1, 2001 between
Seller and the Rockefeller Group Development Corporation (the "RENTAL AGENCY
AGREEMENT") and Purchaser shall assume from and after the Closing Date, (xiii)
the Pledge and Security Agreement dated November 19, 1998, by Rock-Forty-Ninth,
Inc. ("RFN") and Rock-Plaza, Inc. ("RP") in favor of Seller (the "PLEDGE") and
Purchaser shall assume same from and after the Closing Date and the "PLEDGED
COLLATERAL" (as defined in the Pledge) thereunder; (xiv) the Letter Agreement
between


                                      -4-
<Page>

Rockefeller Group, Inc. and Seller dated November 19, 1998 with respect to the
use of the name "Rockefeller" (the "Letter Agreement") and Purchaser shall
assume same from and after the Closing Date; (xv) the Assumed Contracts and
Purchaser shall assume same from and after the Closing Date, (xvi) any strips
and gores pertaining to the Premises; (xvii) all easements, rights of way,
reservations, privileges and appurtenances of Seller pertaining to the Premises;
and (xviii) the Plans, (the documents set forth in (vii), (viii), (ix), (x),
(xi) and (xii) shall be collectively referred to as the "OPERATIVE DOCUMENTS").
The items described in clauses (i) through (xviii) above shall be referred to
herein collectively as the "PROPERTY". The Property shall also include all of
the right, title and interest of MS under the Option to Lease Space Agreement.

3.       ACCESS TO PREMISES.

         (a) Subject to the provisions of SECTION 3(B), Purchaser and its
agents, employees, consultants, inspectors, appraisers, engineers and vendors
(collectively "PURCHASER'S REPRESENTATIVES") shall have the right, from time to
time, upon at least one business day's prior notice as required pursuant to
SECTION 3(B), to enter upon and pass through the Premises during normal business
hours to examine and inspect the same and to meet with the Contractors (as
defined in the Post Closing Agreement) to discuss the Project. Seller shall
reasonably cooperate with Purchaser to accommodate Seller's request but shall be
able to reschedule the time, provided the rescheduled time is within a
reasonable time from the time of Purchaser's original request, when Purchaser
and Purchaser's Representatives may enter the Premises or meet with the
Contractors upon notice to Purchaser. Notwithstanding any such inspection of the
Premises or discussions with the Contractors, Purchaser shall have no right to
terminate this Agreement or to obtain any reduction of the Purchase Price as a
result of any matters discovered by any such inspection.

         (b) In conducting any activity described in SECTION 3(A) above, neither
Purchaser nor any of Purchaser's Representatives shall (i) contact or have any
discussions with any of Seller's or Seller Related Parties' employees, agents,
contractors, consultants or representatives or the Contractors unless in each
case Purchaser obtains the prior consent of Seller, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed, it being agreed that all such contacts or
discussions shall, pending any such approval, be directed to John Pierce or
Kevin Murray, (ii) interfere with the construction of the Project or (iii)
damage the Premises or any portion thereof. In conducting any inspection or any
meeting or discussion, Purchaser and Purchaser's Representatives shall at all
times comply with, and shall be subject to, all other terms, covenants and
conditions of this Agreement. Seller may from time to time establish reasonable
rules of conduct for Purchaser and Purchaser's Representatives in furtherance of
the foregoing. Purchaser shall schedule and coordinate all inspections, meetings
and discussions with Seller and shall give Seller at least one (1) business day
prior notice thereof. Seller shall be entitled


                                      -5-
<Page>

to have a representative of Seller be present at all times during each such
inspection, meeting or discussion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Purchaser
delivers a Full Stop Election, then, prior to Closing, Purchaser shall have the
right to meet with Turner, the FF&E Vendors and the IT Vendors without a Seller
representative being present, provided that such unsupervised meetings shall not
occur on the Premises. Purchaser agrees to pay to Seller, on demand, the cost of
repairing and restoring any damage or disturbance which Purchaser or Purchaser's
Representatives shall cause to the Premises or any portion thereof. All
inspection fees, appraisal fees, engineering fees and other costs and expenses
of any kind incurred by Purchaser or Purchaser's Representatives relating to
such inspection of the Premises and its review thereof shall be at the sole
expense of Purchaser. Purchaser shall deliver to Seller, at no cost to Seller,
copies of all written reports of tests, reports and inspections of the Premises
made and conducted by Purchaser or Purchaser's Representatives or for
Purchaser's benefit. In the event that the Closing hereunder shall not occur for
any reason whatsoever, then, promptly following the termination hereof,
Purchaser shall deliver to Seller, at no cost to Seller, the originals (or
copies, if the originals are not in Purchaser's possession) of all written
tests, reports and inspections of the Premises made and conducted by Purchaser
or Purchaser's Representatives or for Purchaser's benefit which are in the
possession or control of Purchaser or Purchaser's Representatives. Purchaser and
Purchaser's Representatives shall not be permitted to conduct borings of the
Premises or drilling in or on the Premises in connection with the preparation of
any environmental audit or in connection with any other inspection of the
Premises without the consent of Seller (which consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed). The provisions of this SECTION 3(B) shall survive the
Closing or any termination of this Agreement.

         (c) Purchaser agrees to indemnify and hold Seller and its direct and
indirect shareholders, officers, directors, partners, principals, members,
employees, agents, contractors, and any successors or assigns of the foregoing
(collectively with Seller, "SELLER RELATED PARTIES") harmless from and against
any and all losses, costs, damages, liens, claims, liabilities or expenses
(including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs and
disbursements) incurred by any of Seller's Related Parties arising from or by
reason of Purchaser's and/or Purchaser's Representatives' access to, or
inspection of, the Premises, or any tests, inspections or other due diligence
conducted in or about Premises pursuant to this Agreement. The provisions of
this SECTION 3(C) shall survive the Closing or any termination of this
Agreement.

         (d) Purchaser shall maintain or cause to be maintained, at Purchaser's
expense, a policy of commercial general liability coverage, with a broad form
contractual liability endorsement covering Purchaser's indemnification
obligations contained in Section 3(c) above, with a combined single limit of not
less than $5,000,000 per occurrence for bodily injury and property damage
insuring Purchaser, Seller and Seller Related Parties, as additional insureds
against any injuries or damages to persons or property that may result


                                      -6-
<Page>

from or are related to (i) Purchaser's or Purchaser's Representatives entry upon
the Premises; (ii) any investigations or other activities conducted thereon, and
(iii) any and all other activities undertaken by Purchaser or Purchaser's
Representatives with respect to the Premises, all of which insurance shall be on
an "occurrence form" and otherwise in such form and with an insurance company
reasonably acceptable to Seller. Such insurance may be maintained under a
blanket policy. Purchaser shall deliver a copy of the insurance certificate
evidencing such insurance to Seller prior to Purchaser's entry on the Premises.

4.       PURCHASE PRICE AND DEPOSIT.

         The purchase price to be paid by Purchaser to Seller for the Property
(the "PURCHASE PRICE") is Seven Hundred Fifty Three Million Dollars
($753,000,000). The Purchase Price shall be allocated between: (a) Ground
Leasehold - $463,852,685, (b) Building and Interior Improvements - $153,947,315
and (c) FF&E - $135,200,000. The Purchase Price shall be payable as follows:

                  (a) Simultaneously with the execution of this Agreement by
Purchaser, Purchaser is delivering directly to Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver &
Jacobson, as escrow agent ("ESCROW AGENT") by wire transfer the amount of One
Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000) (the "DEPOSIT"). The Deposit shall be
held in an interest bearing escrow account by Escrow Agent in accordance with an
escrow agreement between Seller, Purchaser and Escrow Agent, executed
simultaneously herewith. The Deposit shall be delivered by Escrow Agent to
Seller or Purchaser as hereinafter provided in this AGREEMENT and the Escrow
Agreement. All references to this Agreement to the Deposit shall mean the
Deposit and all interest accrued thereon.

                  (b) At the Closing, Escrow Agent shall deliver the Deposit to
Seller (it being understood that any interest on the Deposit shall not be
credited to the Purchase Price) and Purchaser shall deliver the balance of the
Purchase Price as follows:

                           (i) $615,500,000, subject to adjustment as provided
in ARTICLE 7 to Seller; and

                           (ii) $37,500,000 to Escrow Agent, or such other party
agreed to by the parties, as escrow agent, to be held and disbursed pursuant to
the Agreement as to Post Closing Obligations, attached hereto as EXHIBIT 15 (the
"POST CLOSING AGREEMENT").

                  (c) All monies payable by Purchaser under this Agreement,
unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, shall be paid by wire transfer of
immediately available federal funds for credit to such bank account or accounts
specified by Seller, and divided into such amounts as may be required to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.


                                      -7-
<Page>

                  As used in this Agreement, the term "BUSINESS DAY" shall mean
every day other than Saturdays, Sundays, all days observed by the federal or New
York State government as legal holidays and all days on which commercial banks
in New York State are required by law to be closed.

                  (d) Except as otherwise specified in SECTIONS 6(B), 12(A)(II),
13(A)(II) and 20(B) of this Agreement, the Deposit shall be non-refundable. The
provisions of this SECTION 4(D) shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

5.       STATUS OF THE TITLE.

         All Personal Property to be conveyed by Seller hereunder shall be free
of liens. Subject to the terms and provisions of this Agreement, Seller's
interest in the Premises shall be sold, assigned and conveyed by Seller to
Purchaser, and Purchaser shall accept same, subject only to the following
(collectively, the "PERMITTED ENCUMBRANCES"):

         (a) the state of facts disclosed on the survey prepared by Montrose
Surveying Co., LLP, dated October 12, 2001 (the "DISCLOSED SURVEY ITEMS") and
any further state of facts which are not Disclosed Survey Items as a current
survey of the Premises or a personal inspection would disclose provided such
facts would not (i) have a material adverse affect on the use of the Building
for a commercial office building or (ii) make it impossible to comply, in whole
or in part, with a requirement in the zoning applicable to the Building that
requires a portion of the Building to be used for a particular purpose;

         (b) the standard printed exclusions from coverage contained in the ALTA
form of owners title policy currently in use in New York, with the standard New
York endorsement, and the easements, conditions, restrictions, agreements,
encumbrances and rights of others to, and matters relating to, party walls, as
set forth on SCHEDULE B annexed hereto (collectively, the "APPROVED COMMITMENT
ITEMS");

         (c) Non-Objectionable Encumbrances (as hereinafter defined); and any
liens, encumbrances or other title exceptions approved or waived by Purchaser as
provided in SECTION 6;

         (d) real estate taxes, sewer rents and taxes, water rates and charges,
vault charges and taxes and business improvement district taxes and any other
governmental taxes or charges levied or assessed against the Premises subject to
apportionment in accordance with Section 7 hereof;

         (e) any laws, rules, regulations, statutes, ordinances, orders, permits
or other legal requirements affecting the Premises, including, without
limitation, those relating to zoning and land use;


                                      -8-
<Page>

         (f) recorded and unrecorded utility company rights, easements and
franchises for electricity, water, steam, gas, telephone or other service or the
right to use and maintain poles, lines, wires, cables, pipes, boxes and other
fixtures and facilities in, over, under and upon the Premises, provided that, in
the case of any of the foregoing items which shall not be of record, the same do
not materially adversely affect the use or occupancy of the Premises as an
office building;

         (g) any installment not yet due and payable of assessments first
imposed after the date hereof affecting the Premises or any portion thereof;

         (h) all violations of laws, rules, regulations, statutes, ordinances,
orders or other legal requirements affecting the Premises, now or hereafter
issued or noted provided that Seller shall, post closing, pursuant to the
Post-Closing Agreement, cure and remove of record any violations that exist of
record as of the Closing Date; and

         (i) obligations imposed under the Emergency Repairs provisions of the
New York City Administrative Code.

6.       TITLE INSURANCE; LIENS.

         (a) Purchaser shall be required to purchase not less than twenty-five
percent (25%) of the title insurance obtained by Purchaser in connection with
its acquisition of the Premises from Title Associates, Inc., as agent for
Chicago Title Insurance Company. Title to be conveyed hereunder shall be as set
forth in the pro-forma policy attached hereto as SCHEDULE B (the "COMMITMENT")
and subject to the terms of that certain agreement between the New York City
Trust Authority, Rock-Forty-Ninth LLC and Seller dated October 18, 1999 (the
"SUBWAY AGREEMENT") that has or is about to be recorded and that certain
Termination of Agreement between the New York City Transit Authority,
Rock-Forty-Ninth, Inc. and Rock-Forty-Ninth LLC, dated as of October 18, 1999
that has or is about to be recorded. If the Subway Agreement has not been
recorded as of the Closing Date, Seller shall deliver a recordable copy of same
to the Company for recording. The Subway Agreement and all matters set forth in
the Commitment shall constitute Permitted Encumbrances. Purchaser has engaged
First American Title Insurance Company of New York to issue a portion of the
title insurance with respect to the Premises and will direct same to furnish
Seller with a copy of the commitment issued by it and copies of all updates or
revisions to such commitment. Title Associates and First American Title
Insurance Company of New York are hereinafter collectively referred to as the
"COMPANY." Upon receipt of any further updates or revisions to the Commitment
from the Company, Seller shall furnish copies thereof to Purchaser. Purchaser
shall, on or before the Objection Date, furnish to Seller a written statement
setting forth such exceptions to title appearing on such revisions or updates
which were not set forth in the Commitment and which Purchaser claims are not
Permitted Encumbrances (the "UPDATE OBJECTIONS"); it being agreed that Purchaser
shall have no


                                      -9-
<Page>

right to object to the Permitted Encumbrances. "OBJECTION DATE" means the
Scheduled Closing Date; PROVIDED, that if Seller gives to Purchaser any such
update or revision accompanied by a notice in bold capital letters stating in
substance that Purchaser's failure to deliver a statement of Update Objections
with respect to such update or revision within five (5) business days after the
giving of such notice, then the Objection Date shall be such 5th business day.
If Purchaser does not deliver such written statement by the Objection Date,
Purchaser shall be deemed to have waived its right to object to such additional
exceptions to title appearing on such revisions or updates (and the same shall
not constitute Update Objections but shall be deemed Permitted Encumbrances).
Purchaser shall not be entitled to object to, and shall be deemed to have
approved, any liens, encumbrances or other title exceptions (and the same shall
not constitute Update Objections but shall be deemed Permitted Encumbrances) (i)
over which the Company is willing to insure or against which the Company is
willing to provide affirmative insurance (in either case without additional cost
to Purchaser); PROVIDED, the aggregate amount of Update Objections under this
CLAUSE (I) does not exceed $5,000,000, or (ii) which will be extinguished upon
the transfer of the Property (collectively the "NON-OBJECTIONABLE
ENCUMBRANCES"). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if
Seller is unable to eliminate the Update Objections by the Scheduled Closing
Date, unless the same are waived by Purchaser without any abatement in the
Purchase Price, Seller may, upon at least two (2) days' prior notice ("TITLE
CURE NOTICE") to Purchaser (except with respect to matters first disclosed
during the two (2) day period prior to the Scheduled Closing Date, as to which
matters notice may be given at any time through and including the Scheduled
Closing Date) adjourn the Scheduled Closing Date (the date to which Seller
adjourns the Scheduled Closing Date is herein referred to as the "ADJOURNED
CLOSING DATE"), for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days ("TITLE CURE
PERIOD") in order to attempt to eliminate such exceptions.

         (b) If Seller is unable to eliminate the Update Objections within the
Title Cure Period, unless the same are unconditionally waived by Purchaser,
then, Purchaser may (i) accept the Property subject to such Update Objections
without abatement of the Purchase Price, in which event (x) such Update
Objections shall be deemed to be, for all purposes, Permitted Encumbrances, (y)
Purchaser shall close hereunder notwithstanding the existence of same, and (z)
Seller shall have no obligations whatsoever after the Closing Date with respect
to Seller's failure to cause such Update Objections to be eliminated, or (ii)
terminate this Agreement by notice given to Seller within ten (10) business days
following receipt of notice from Seller that it was unable to eliminate the
Update Objections within the Title Cure Period, time being of the essence, in
which event Purchaser shall be entitled to a return of the Deposit. If Purchaser
shall fail to deliver the termination notice described in clause (ii) within the
10 business day period described therein, time being of the essence, Purchaser
shall be deemed to have made the election under CLAUSE (II) as of the last day
of such 10 business day period. Upon the timely giving of any termination notice
under clause (ii), or if Purchaser is deemed to have made such


                                      -10-
<Page>

election as aforesaid, this Agreement shall terminate and neither party hereto
shall have any further rights or obligations hereunder other than those which
are expressly provided to survive the termination hereof.

         (c) It is expressly understood that, except as provided in this CLAUSE
(C), in no event shall Seller be required to bring any action or institute any
proceeding, or to otherwise incur any costs or expenses in order to attempt to
eliminate the Update Objections or to otherwise cause title in the Premises to
be in accordance with the terms of this Agreement on the Closing Date.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, Seller shall be obligated, at Closing,
(i) to discharge or remove, of record, any mortgages or consensual liens created
by Seller; (ii) to bond, discharge or otherwise satisfy any liens or cause the
Company to insure over any liens (subject, in the case of liens that are insured
over but not bonded to the $5,000,000 "cap" set forth in Section 6(a)(i) which
are the result of work performed by Seller, or on its behalf, and which can be
so bonded, discharged or otherwise satisfied solely by the payment of a
liquidated sum and bond to the extent same are bondable or satisfy any judgments
against Seller; and (iv) to discharge any restrictive covenants, declarations,
easements or other similar instruments which are executed and acknowledged by
Seller prior to the Closing Date and recorded against the Premises, which are
not Permitted Encumbrances.

         (d) If Seller shall have adjourned the Scheduled Closing Date in order
to cure Update Objections in accordance with the provisions of this SECTION 6,
Seller shall, upon the satisfactory cure thereof, promptly reschedule the
Scheduled Closing Date, upon at least five (5) business days' prior notice to
Purchaser (the "NEW CLOSING NOTICE"). If any matters which are Update Objections
arise between the date the New Closing Notice is given and the rescheduled
Scheduled Closing Date, Seller may again adjourn the Closing for a reasonable
period or periods, in order to attempt to cause such exceptions to be eliminated
by sending Purchaser a Title Cure Notice. Seller shall not be entitled to
adjourn the Scheduled Closing Date pursuant to this SECTION 6 for a period or
periods in excess of ninety (90) days in the aggregate.

         (e) If the Commitment or any update or revision thereto discloses
judgments, bankruptcies or other returns against other persons having names the
same as, or similar to, that of Seller, Seller, upon request, shall deliver to
the Company affidavits showing that such judgments, bankruptcies or other
returns are not against Seller in order to induce the Company to omit exceptions
with respect to such judgments, bankruptcies or other returns or to insure over
same.


                                      -11-
<Page>

7.       APPORTIONMENTS.

         (a) The following shall be apportioned between Seller and Purchaser as
of the close of business on the day immediately preceding the Closing Date (the
"APPORTIONMENT DATE"):

                           (i) all Fixed Annual Rent and Additional Rent payable
                  under the Ground Lease provided that Seller shall be
                  responsible for the payment of the "Start-Up Fee" described in
                  Section 3.6.2 of the Ground Lease;

                           (ii) real estate taxes, business improvement district
                  charges, sewer rents and taxes, water rates and charges (to
                  the extent not accounted for pursuant to CLAUSE (I) above and
                  (III) below), vault charges and taxes, and any other
                  governmental taxes or charges levied or assessed against the
                  Premises (collectively, "PROPERTY TAXES"), on the basis of the
                  respective periods for which each is assessed or imposed, to
                  be apportioned in accordance with SECTION 7(C) hereof;

                           (iii) water rates and charges and sewer rents and
                  taxes (to the extent not accounted for pursuant to CLAUSE (I)
                  above), if any, based on meter readings to be apportioned in
                  accordance with SECTION 7(C) hereof;

                           (iv) fuel, if any, as estimated by Seller's supplier
                  not more than five (5) days prior to the Closing Date, at
                  current cost, together with any sales taxes payable in
                  connection therewith, if any (a letter from Seller's fuel
                  supplier shall be conclusive evidence as to the quantity of
                  fuel on hand and the current cost therefor);

                           (v) prepaid fees for assignable licenses and other
                  permits (other than construction permits for portions of the
                  Project for which Seller is responsible under the Post-Closing
                  Agreement) assigned to Purchaser at the Closing;

                           (vi) any amounts prepaid or payable by Seller under
                  the Assumed Contracts (as defined in SECTION 10(A)(II));

                           (vii) amounts payable under the Management Agreement,
                  including, without limitation, wages and fringe benefits
                  (including, without limitation, vacation pay, sick days,
                  health, welfare, pension and disability benefits) and other
                  compensation payable to all personnel, if any, employed at the
                  Building at Closing; and

                           (viii) amounts required to be paid by the owner of
                  the Premises under any instruments recorded against the
                  Premises as shown on


                                      -12-
<Page>

                  Schedule B except to the extent that such amounts are part of
                  the work to be performed by Seller pursuant to the Post
                  Closing Agreement.

          (b) If there are water meters at the Premises, the unfixed water rates
and charges and sewer rents and taxes covered by meters, if any, shall be
apportioned (i) on the basis of an actual reading done within thirty (30) days
prior to the Apportionment Date, or (ii) if such reading has not been made, on
the basis of the last available reading. If the apportionment is not based on an
actual current reading, then upon the taking of a subsequent actual reading,
such apportionment shall be readjusted and Seller shall promptly deliver to
Purchaser or Purchaser shall promptly deliver to Seller, as the case may be, the
amount determined to be due upon such readjustment.

         (c) Charges for all electricity, steam, gas and other utility services
(collectively, "UTILITIES") shall be billed to Seller's account up to the
Apportionment Date and, from and after the Apportionment Date, all utilities
shall be billed to Purchaser's account. If for any reason such changeover in
billing is not practicable as of the Closing Date, as to any Utility, such
Utility shall be apportioned on the basis of actual current readings or, if such
readings have not been made, on the basis of the most recent bills that are
available. If any apportionment is not based on an actual current reading, then
upon the taking of a subsequent actual reading, such apportionment shall be
readjusted and Seller shall promptly deliver to Purchaser, or Purchaser shall
promptly deliver to Seller, as the case may be, the amount determined to be due
upon such adjustment.

         (d) If the computation of the aforementioned apportionments shows that
a net amount is owed by Seller to Purchaser, such amount shall be credited
against the Purchase Price payable by Purchaser on the Closing Date. If such
computation shows that a net amount is owed by Purchaser to Seller, such amount
shall be added to the Purchase Price payable by Purchaser on the Closing Date.

         (e) At or prior to the Closing, Seller and Purchaser and/or their
respective agents or designees will jointly prepare a preliminary closing
statement reasonably satisfactory to Seller and Purchaser in form and substance
(the "PRELIMINARY CLOSING STATEMENT") which will show the net amount due either
to Seller or to Purchaser as the result of the adjustments and prorations
provided for herein, and such net due amount will be added to or subtracted from
the Purchase Price to be paid to Seller at the Closing pursuant to SECTION 4
hereof. Within sixty (60) days following the Closing Date, Seller and Purchaser
and/or their respective agents or designees will jointly prepare a final closing
statement reasonably satisfactory to Seller and Purchaser in form and substance
(the "FINAL CLOSING STATEMENT") setting forth the final determination of the
adjustments and prorations provided for herein and setting forth any items which
are not capable of being determined at such time (and the manner in which such
items shall be determined and paid). The net amount due Seller or Purchaser, if
any, by reason of adjustments to the Preliminary Closing Statement as shown in
the Final Closing Statement, shall be paid in


                                      -13-
<Page>

cash by the party obligated therefor within ten (10) days following that party's
receipt of the approved Final Closing Statement. The adjustments, prorations and
determinations agreed to by Seller and Purchaser in the Final Closing Statement
shall be conclusive and binding on the parties hereto except for any items which
are not capable of being determined at the time the Final Closing Statement is
agreed to by Seller and Purchaser, which items shall be determined and paid in
the manner set forth in the Final Closing Statement and except for other amounts
payable hereunder pursuant to provisions which survive the Closing (including,
without limitation, tax refunds pursuant to SECTION 15). Prior to and following
the Closing Date, each party shall provide the other with such information as
the other shall reasonably request (including, without limitation, access to the
books, records, files, ledgers, information and data with respect to the
Property during normal business hours upon reasonable advance notice) in order
to make the preliminary and final adjustments and prorations provided for
herein.

         (f) The provisions of this SECTION 7 shall survive the Closing.

8.       PROPERTY NOT INCLUDED IN SALE.

         Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, it is
expressly agreed by the parties hereto that none of Seller's (a) proprietary
technology and any intellectual property rights therein, proprietary signs and
the proprietary content thereof or proprietary fixtures, (b) trademarks, service
marks, logos, trade names and corporate names, (c) telephone numbers and
Internet Protocol ("IP") addresses, (d) Extended Carrier Agreements and systems,
(e) market data provider hardware and/or service contracts, (f) certain used
furniture shown on the Plans as being relocated from other facilities of Seller
(g) certain contracts that provide IT Equipment and services for the Building
and other facilities of Seller as identified on Schedule O hereto (the "Global
Contracts") (the items in clauses (a) through (g) are collectively, "EXCLUDED
PERSONALTY"), shall be included in the Property to be sold to Purchaser
hereunder. This SECTION 8 shall survive the Closing.

9.       CERTAIN COVENANTS OF SELLER.

         (a) During the period from the date hereof until the Closing Date:

                  (i) Seller shall maintain in full force and effect the
insurance policies, a schedule of which is attached hereto as SCHEDULE J,
currently in effect with respect to the Premises;

                  (ii) Seller shall not convey, or enter into any agreement to
convey, any development rights, "air" rights or comparable rights appurtenant to
the Premises;

                  (iii) Seller shall not enter into any lease or other agreement
for the occupancy of the Premises;


                                      -14-
<Page>

                  (iv) Seller shall not amend or modify (other than non-material
amendments or modifications) or renew any of the Assumed Contracts without
Purchaser's consent; and

                  (v) Seller shall not enter into any new contracts other than
market rate contracts with entities not affiliated with Seller relating to the
operation or maintenance of the Building, unless such contract may be terminated
by the owner of the Premises without penalty on not more than thirty (30) days
prior notice each of which shall be an Assumed Contract. Seller will provide
Purchaser with copies of all such new contracts upon execution thereof. The
foregoing shall not be deemed to preclude Seller from entering into new
contracts for the completion of the Project as contemplated by ARTICLE 37 hereof
provided that Purchaser shall have no obligation under such contract unless
Purchaser has specifically consented thereto.

         (b) Whenever in SECTION 9(A) hereof Seller is required to obtain
Purchaser's approval or consent with respect to any transaction described
therein, Purchaser shall, within three (3) business days after receipt of
Seller's request therefore, together with a complete copy of all relevant
documents, notify Seller of its approval or disapproval of same and, if
Purchaser fails to notify Seller of its disapproval within said three (3)
business day period, Purchaser shall in all events be deemed to have disapproved
same.

10.      ASSIGNMENTS BY SELLER AND ASSUMPTIONS
         BY PURCHASER; EMPLOYEES.

         (a) Effective as of the Closing Date, Seller agrees to assign to
Purchaser, without recourse, representation or warranty (except as set forth
herein), all of Seller's right, title and interest in, and Purchaser agrees to
assume Seller's obligations accruing on and after the Closing Date, the
documents described in clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) below:

                  (i) the Ground Lease;

                  (ii) the service, maintenance, supply and other agreements
relating to the operation of the Premises, together with all modifications and
amendments thereof and supplements relating thereto which are set forth on
SCHEDULE C attached hereto and any other service, maintenance, supply and other
agreements (or amendments or modifications) approved by Purchaser or otherwise
permitted hereunder other than the Construction Contracts and the contracts to
purchase the FF&E (the "FF&E CONTRACTS") and the Contracts to purchase the IT
Equipment (the "IT CONTRACTS") (collectively, "ASSUMED CONTRACTS"), in each case
to the extent then in effect;


                                      -15-
<Page>

                  (iii) the transferable permits and licenses, if any, relating
to the Premises and the other intangible personalty; and

                  (iv) the Operative Documents.

           (b) Purchaser agrees that, effective as of the date hereof, the
employees as set forth on Schedule H hereto (it being understood that the list
is of job descriptions and compensation, not individuals), are engaged in the
operation, maintenance cleaning or security of the Building as employees of
Rockefeller Center Management Corporation ("MANAGER"). Such employees and any
additional personnel that may be hired by Manager in accordance with the
Management Agreement shall be union employees who shall, as of the Closing Date,
be offered the same employment by Manager under their then current employment
contracts or agreements, including any collective bargaining agreements or other
union contracts (the "EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS"). Seller shall not consent to the
hiring of additional employees prior to Closing without the consent of
Purchaser, not to be unreasonably withheld, except to the extent Seller is
required to do so under the Management Agreement. Purchaser acknowledges that in
the event it (or Manager) either (i) terminates any of such union employees,
(ii) terminates any cleaning contractor, security contractor or other service
provider to the Premises employing union personnel or requires any such service
provider to reduce their employees at the Premises and, as a result, any of the
union employees engaged by such service provider are terminated (each of the
events described in (i) and (ii), a "TERMINATION EVENT"), certain severance
payments and other termination benefits (collectively, "TERMINATION PAYMENTS")
may be payable with respect to such terminated employees. Purchaser agrees that
it shall be liable for the payment of all such Termination Payments and hereby
agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Seller and the other Seller Related
Parties from and against any loss, cost, damage, liability or expense
(including, without limitations, reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs and
disbursements) incurred by Seller or any other Seller Related Party arising from
or by reason of (1) the occurrence of a Termination Event, (2) Purchaser's
failure to pay such Termination Payments as and when due and payable, (3)
Purchaser's failure to comply with the preceding provisions of this SECTION
10(C) or (4) Purchaser's failure to comply with the obligations under the
Employment Contracts required to be performed by the owner of the Premises and
which accrue from and after the Closing Date (it being agreed that the
obligation to make Termination Payments shall be deemed an obligation which
accrues after the Closing Date).

         (c) The provisions of this SECTION 10 shall survive the Closing.

11.      REPRESENTATIONS.

         (a) Purchaser expressly acknowledges that, except as expressly set
forth in this Agreement, neither Seller, nor any person acting on behalf of
Seller, nor any person or entity which prepared or provided any of the materials
reviewed by Purchaser in


                                      -16-
<Page>

conducting its due diligence, nor any direct or indirect officer, director,
partner, shareholder, employee, agent, representative, accountant, advisor,
attorney, principal, affiliate, consultant, contractor, successor or assign of
any of the foregoing parties (Seller, and all of the other parties described in
the preceding portions of this sentence (other than Purchaser and any unrelated
(to Seller) third parties to Agreements being assigned to Purchaser hereunder)
shall be referred to herein collectively as the "EXCULPATED PARTIES") has made
any oral or written representations or warranties, whether express or implied,
by operation of law or otherwise, with respect to the design and construction of
the Property, the zoning and other laws, regulations and rules applicable
thereto or the compliance by the Property therewith, the revenues and expenses
generated by or associated with the Property, or otherwise relating to the
Property or the transactions contemplated herein. Purchaser further acknowledges
that, except as specifically set forth in this Agreement, all materials which
have been provided by any of the Exculpated Parties have been provided without
any warranty or representation, expressed or implied as to their content,
suitability for any purpose, accuracy, truthfulness or completeness and, except
as specifically set forth in this Agreement, Purchaser shall not have any
recourse against Seller or any of the other Exculpated Parties in the event of
any errors therein or omissions therefrom. Without any disclaimer as to any
representations made hereunder, Purchaser acknowledges that Purchaser has
conducted its own independent investigations with respect to the Premises,
including but not limited to environmental, structural, mechanical and
architectural inspections, and is thoroughly acquainted with all matters related
to the Premises. Without any disclaimer as to any representations made
hereunder, Purchaser is acquiring the Property based solely on its own
independent investigation and inspection of the Property and not in reliance on
any information provided by Seller, or any of the other Exculpated Parties.

         (b) Subject to Seller's obligations with respect to the Project as set
forth in ARTICLE 37 hereof, Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that it is
purchasing the Property based solely upon its inspection and investigations of
the Property and that Purchaser is purchasing the Property "AS IS" and "WITH ALL
FAULTS", based upon the condition of the Property as of the date of this
Agreement, reasonable wear and tear and, subject to the provisions of SECTIONS
12 and 13 of this Agreement, loss by condemnation or fire or other casualty
excepted. The foregoing shall not be deemed to waive any rights to warranties or
guaranties under the Construction Contracts assigned to Purchaser pursuant to
the Post Closing Agreement. Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that its
obligations under this Agreement shall not be subject to any financing
contingency or other contingencies or satisfaction of conditions of any kind
whatsoever and Purchaser shall have no right to terminate this Agreement or
receive a return of the Deposit except as expressly provided for in SECTIONS
6(B), 12(A)(II), 13(A)(II) and 20(B) of this Agreement.

         (c) Seller hereby represents and warrants to Purchaser as of the date
hereof as follows (each a "REPRESENTATION"):


                                      -17-
<Page>

                  (i) Attached hereto as SCHEDULE C is a list of the Assumed
Contracts in effect as of the date hereof which is true and complete in all
material respects (taking into account the Project as a whole).

                  (ii) Seller has made available to Purchaser for Purchaser's
review all of the plans and specifications pursuant to which the Building is
being constructed, a list of which plans and specifications which is true and
complete in all material respects (taking into account the Project as a whole)
dated as of October 3, 2001 is attached hereto as Schedule D (the "BUILDING
PLANS"), it being acknowledged by Purchaser that the Building Plans may not
reflect so-called "field changes" made in the ordinary course of construction of
the Building.

                  (iii) Seller has made available to Purchaser for Purchaser's
review all of the plans and specifications pursuant to which the Interior
Improvements are being constructed, a list of which plans and specifications
which is true and complete in all material respects (taking into account the
Project as a whole) as of October 12, 2001 is attached hereto as Schedule E (the
"INTERIOR IMPROVEMENT PLANS"), it being acknowledged by Purchaser that the
Interior Improvement Plans may not reflect so-called "field changes" made in the
ordinary course of construction of the Building.

                  (iv) Seller has made available to Purchaser for Purchaser's
review all of the specifications for the FF&E installed or to be installed in
the Building, a list of which specifications which is true and complete in all
material respects (taking into account the Project as a whole) as of October 12,
2001 is attached hereto as Schedule F (the "FF&E SPECIFICATIONS"), it being
acknowledged by Purchaser that Seller may substitute items of comparable quality
for items in the FF&E Specifications.

                  (v) Seller has made available for Purchaser's review all of
the specifications of the IT Equipment, a list of which specifications which is
true and complete in all material respects (taking into account the Project as a
whole) as of October 8, 2001 is attached hereto as Schedule K, it being
acknowledged by Purchaser that Seller may substitute items of comparable quality
for items constituting IT Equipment.

                  (vi) Seller has made available for Purchaser's review all of
the Specifications for Exteriors Signs to be installed on the exterior of the
Building, a list of specifications which is true and complete in all material
respects (taking into account the Project as a whole) as of September 15, 1999
is attached hereto as Schedule L, it being acknowledged by Purchaser that Seller
shall be entitled to modify the Exterior Signs and content thereof to remove any
proprietary content, software or images of Seller and Seller Related Parties.


                                      -18-
<Page>

                  (vii) There are no condemnation or eminent domain proceedings
pending or, to Seller's knowledge, threatened, against the Premises.

                  (viii) Seller has not granted to any other party any purchase
option or right of first refusal with respect to the purchase of the Premises or
any part thereof, any interest direct or indirect therein which remains in
effect except for the Right of First Offer in Favor of Rock-Forty-Ninth LLC
("LANDLORD") pursuant to Article 38 of the Ground Lease.

                  (ix) There is no action, suit or proceeding pending or, to
Seller's knowledge, threatened against or affecting the Premises, except as set
forth on SCHEDULE I. In the event any such proceeding is initiated prior to
Closing, Seller shall promptly advise Purchaser of same and shall defend or
cause to be defended, without cost to Purchaser, and shall indemnify Purchaser
from and against all loss, liability and expense including reasonable attorneys'
fees and disbursements, incurred by Purchaser by reason of such action, suit or
proceeding.

                  (x) Seller has not entered into any lease, license or other
agreement for the use or occupancy of the Premises or any portion thereof except
as set forth in the Commitment, the Subway Agreement, the Operative Documents or
as otherwise set forth in this Agreement.

                  (xi) Seller has delivered to Purchaser a true and complete
copy of the Ground Lease. The Ground Lease is in full force and effect, all
Fixed Annual Rent and Additional Rent due and payable under the Ground Lease
have been paid, and no notice of default has been given by the Landlord
thereunder which remains uncured.

                  (xii) Seller has delivered to Purchaser true and complete
copies of the Management Agreement, Plaza Agreement, Publicity Agreement, Rental
Agency Agreement, the Letter Agreement and the Subway Agreement. To the best of
Seller's knowledge, such documents are in full force and effect, Seller has not
given any notices to the parties thereto of a default thereunder and no notice
of material default by Seller has been given to Seller by the parties under such
agreements which remains uncured.

                  (xiii) The JV Option Agreement and the Option to Lease Space
Agreement are in full force and effect, Seller has not given any notice of
default to the "Land Owner" and no notice of default has been given by the "Land
Owner" under either such agreement which remains uncured and no notice has been
given under either such agreement of the exercise of any option granted
thereunder.

Any and all uses of the phrase, "to the best of the Seller's knowledge" or other
references to Seller's knowledge in this Agreement shall mean the actual,
present, conscious knowledge of David Arena, Nan Molofsky and John Pierce,
representatives of Seller (the


                                      -19-
<Page>

"SELLER KNOWLEDGE INDIVIDUALS"), as to a fact at the time given without
investigation or inquiry. Neither the actual, present, conscious knowledge of
any other individual or entity, nor the constructive knowledge of the Seller
Knowledge Individuals or of any other individual or entity, shall be imputed to
the Seller Knowledge Individuals.

         The representations and warranties of Seller contained in this Section
11(c) shall survive the Closing for two hundred seventy (270) days following the
Closing Date. Each such representation and warranty shall automatically be null
and void and of no further force and effect on the 270th day following the
Closing Date unless, prior to such 270th day, Purchaser shall have delivered a
written notice to Seller alleging that Seller shall be in breach of such
representation or warranty, that Purchaser did not have actual knowledge of such
breach on or prior to the Closing Date and that Purchaser shall have suffered
actual damages as a result thereof (a "REP CLAIM"). Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary contained herein, in no event shall Purchaser be entitled to make a
Rep Claim (or prosecute a proceeding) unless the aggregate amount of all Rep
Claims exceeds $500,000 in the aggregate. If a Rep Claim shall timely be made by
Purchaser as aforesaid and shall not be resolved by the parties by the 180th day
following the date Purchaser gave Seller notice of the Rep Claim (each, an
"OUTSIDE DATE"), then each such representation and warranty as to which such Rep
Claim shall have been made shall automatically be null and void and of no
further force or effect on the applicable Outside Date unless, prior to such
Outside Date, Purchaser shall have commenced a legal proceeding against Seller
making the same allegations as are set forth in such Rep Claim (a "PROCEEDING").
If Purchaser shall have timely commenced a Proceeding and a court of competent
jurisdiction shall, pursuant to a final, non-appealable order in connection with
such Proceeding, determine that (1) Seller was in breach of any of the
applicable representation or warranty as of the date of this Agreement and (2)
Purchaser suffered actual damages (the "DAMAGES") by reason of such breach and
(3) Purchaser did not have actual knowledge or constructive knowledge of such
breach on or prior to the Closing Date then, Purchaser shall be entitled to
receive an amount equal to the Damages; provided, that, in no event shall
Purchaser be entitled to consequential or punitive damages. Any such Damages
shall be refunded within thirty (30) days following the entry of such final,
non-appealable order and delivery of a copy thereof to Seller. Purchaser
acknowledges and agrees that, in the event that Seller shall be in breach of any
of the Representations, Purchaser shall have no recourse to the property or
other assets of Seller or any of the other Exculpated Parties (excluding the
proceeds), and Purchaser's sole remedy, in such event, shall be to receive a
refund from the net sales proceeds received by Seller from Purchaser at the
Closing in the amount of the Damages.

         (d) The foregoing right of Purchaser to pursue a Rep Claim shall be
null and void to the extent that Seller or Seller Related Parties have delivered
or made available to Purchaser any leases, contracts or other information with
respect to the Property at any time prior to the Closing Date, such leases,
contracts or other information contain


                                      -20-
<Page>

provisions that disclose that any of the Representations are untrue and
Purchaser had actual knowledge of such provisions; it being agreed that any such
Representations shall be deemed modified to conform to such provisions, and to
the extent that any information provided to Purchaser or acquired by it is
information which is available to or provided by Seller or Seller Related
Parties, such information discloses that any of the Representations herein are
untrue and Purchaser has actual knowledge of such information, such
representations shall be modified to conform to such information.

         (e) The provisions of SECTIONS 11(A), (B), (C), AND (D) shall survive
the Closing but such survival shall be limited, in the case of the
representations and warranties set forth in SECTION 11(C), to the extent set
forth therein.

12.      DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION.

         (a) If all or any part of the Building is damaged by fire or other
casualty occurring following the date hereof and prior to the Closing Date,
whether or not such damage affects a material part of the Building, then:

                  (i) if the estimated cost of repair or restoration is less
than or equal to $75,000,000 and if the estimated time to complete such repair
or restoration is six (6) months or less, then (1) neither party shall have the
right to terminate this Agreement and the parties shall nonetheless consummate
this transaction in accordance with this Agreement, without any abatement of the
Purchase Price or any liability or obligation on the part of Seller by reason of
said destruction or damage, and (2) all of the casualty (and other) insurance
proceeds received under the casualty (and other) insurance policies in effect
covering physical damage or destruction of the Building shall be used for the
restoration and repair of the Building; it being agreed that Seller shall be
responsible to restore the work covered by the Building Plans and Purchaser
shall be responsible to restore the work covered by the Interior Improvement
Plans, the FF&E Specifications and the IT Specifications.

                  (ii) if the estimated cost of repair or restoration exceeds
$75,000,000 or if the estimated time to complete such repair or restoration
exceeds six (6) months, Purchaser shall have the option, exercisable within ten
(10) days after receipt of the estimates referred to in Section 12(b) (or, if
later, the determination of the arbitrator under Section 12(c)), time being of
the essence, to terminate this Agreement by delivering notice thereof to Seller,
whereupon the Deposit shall be returned to Purchaser and this Agreement shall be
deemed canceled and of no further force or effect, and neither party shall have
any further rights or liabilities against or to the other except for such
provisions which are expressly provided in this Agreement to survive the
termination hereof. If a fire or other casualty described in this CLAUSE (II)
shall occur and Purchaser shall not timely elect to terminate this Agreement,
then (1) Purchaser and Seller shall consummate this transaction in accordance
with this Agreement, without any abatement of the


                                      -21-
<Page>

Purchase Price or any liability or obligation on the part of Seller by reason of
said destruction or damage, and (2) all of the casualty (and other) insurance
proceeds received under the casualty (and other) insurance policies in effect
covering physical damage or destruction of the Building shall be used for the
restoration and repair of the Building; it being agreed that Seller shall be
responsible to restore the work covered by the Building Plans and Purchaser
shall be responsible to restore the work covered by the Interior Improvement
Plans, the FF&E Specifications and the IT Specifications.

         (b) The estimated cost to repair and/or restore and the estimated time
to complete contemplated in SUBSECTION (A) above, the amount of insurance
proceeds allocable for the restoration of the work covered by the Building
Plans, Interior Improvement Plans, FF&E Specifications and IT Specifications and
an equitable allocation of any shortfall between the insurance proceeds and the
cost to restore the work covered by the Base Building Plans and Interior
Improvement Plans, shall be established by estimates obtained by Seller from
independent contractors, subject to Purchaser's review and reasonable approval
of the same and the provisions of SECTION 12(C) below.

         (c) The provisions of this SECTION 12 supersede the provisions of
Section 5-1311 of the General Obligations Law of the State of New York. Any
disputes under this SECTION 12 as to the cost of repair or restoration or the
time for completion of such repair or restoration shall be resolved by expedited
arbitration before a single arbitrator acceptable to both Seller and Purchaser
in their reasonable judgment in accordance with the rules of the American
Arbitration Association ("AAA"); provided that if Seller and Purchaser fail to
agree on an arbitrator within five days after a dispute arises, then either
party may request the Real Estate Board of New York, Inc. ("REBNY"), to
designate an arbitrator. Such arbitrator shall be an independent architect or
engineer having at least ten (10) years of experience in the construction of
first-class office buildings in Manhattan. The determination of the arbitrator
shall be conclusive and binding upon the parties. The costs and expenses of such
Arbitrator shall be borne equally by Seller and Purchaser.

13.      CONDEMNATION.

         (a) If, prior to the Closing Date, any part of the Premises is taken
(other than a temporary taking), or if Seller shall receive an official notice
from any governmental authority having eminent domain power over the Premises of
its intention to take, by eminent domain proceeding, any part of the Premises (a
"TAKING"), then:

                  (i) if such Taking involves less than or equal to twenty
percent (20%) of the rentable area of the Building as determined by an
independent architect chosen by Seller (subject to Purchaser's review and
reasonable approval of such determination and the provisions of SECTION 13(B)
below), then (1) neither party shall have any right to terminate this Agreement,
and the parties shall nonetheless consummate this transaction


                                      -22-
<Page>

in accordance with this Agreement, without any abatement of the Purchase Price
or any liability or obligation on the part of Seller by reason of such Taking,
provided, however, that Seller shall, on the Closing Date, assign and remit to
Purchaser and Purchaser shall be entitled to receive and keep the net proceeds
of any condemnation award or other proceeds of such Taking and applicable to the
Premises (less all reasonable expenses incurred by Seller in connection with
such Taking) or (2) if no award or other proceeds shall have been collected,
deliver to Purchaser an assignment of Seller's right to such award or other
proceeds which may be payable to Seller as a result of such Taking and Purchaser
shall reimburse Seller for the reasonable expenses incurred by Seller in
connection with such Taking.

                  (ii) if such Taking involves more than twenty percent (20%) of
the rentable area of the Building as determined by an independent architect
chosen by Seller (subject to Purchaser's review and reasonable approval of such
determination and the provisions of SECTION 13(B) below), Purchaser shall have
the option, exercisable within twenty (20) business days after receipt of notice
of such Taking, time being of the essence, to terminate this Agreement by
delivering notice thereof to Seller, whereupon the Deposit (together with any
interest earned thereon) shall be returned to Purchaser and this Agreement shall
be deemed canceled and of no further force or effect, and neither party shall
have any further rights or liabilities against or to the other except pursuant
to the provisions of this Agreement which are expressly provided to survive the
termination hereof. If a Taking described in this CLAUSE (II) shall occur and
Purchaser shall not timely elect to terminate this Agreement, then (1) Purchaser
and Seller shall consummate this transaction in accordance with this Agreement,
without any abatement of the Purchase Price or any liability or obligation on
the part of Seller by reason of such Taking, assign and remit to Purchaser and
Purchaser shall be entitled to receive and keep the proceeds of any condemnation
award or other proceeds of such Taking and applicable to the Premises (less all
reasonable expenses incurred by Seller in connection with such Taking) or (2) if
no award or other proceeds shall have been collected, deliver to Purchaser an
assignment of Seller's right to such award or other proceeds which may be
payable to Seller as a result of such Taking and Purchaser shall, within 30 days
after the receipt of such award or proceeds, reimburse Seller for the reasonable
expenses incurred by Seller in connection with such Taking.

         (b) The provisions of this SECTION 13 supersede the provisions of
Section 5-1311 of the General Obligations Law of the State of New York. Any
disputes under this SECTION 13 as to whether the Taking involves more than
twenty percent (20%) of the rentable area of the Building shall be resolved by
expedited arbitration before a single arbitrator acceptable to both Seller and
Purchaser in their reasonable judgment in accordance with the rules of the AAA;
provided that if Seller and Purchaser fail to agree on an arbitrator within five
days after a dispute arises, then either party may request the REBNY designate
an arbitrator. Such arbitrator shall be an independent architect having


                                      -23-
<Page>

at least ten (10) years of experience in the construction of first-class office
buildings in Manhattan. The costs and expenses of such Arbitrator shall be borne
equally by Seller and Purchaser.

14.      BROKERS AND ADVISORS.

         (a) Purchaser represents and warrants to Seller that it has not dealt
or negotiated with, or engaged on its own behalf or for its benefit, any broker,
finder, consultant, advisor, or professional in the capacity of a broker or
finder (each a "BROKER") in connection with this Agreement or the transactions
contemplated hereby. Purchaser hereby agrees to indemnify, defend and hold
Seller and the other Seller Related Parties harmless from and against any and
all claims, demands, causes of action, losses, costs and expenses (including
reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs and disbursements) arising from any
claim for commission, fees or other compensation or reimbursement for expenses
made by any Broker engaged by or claiming to have dealt with Purchaser in
connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.

         (b) Seller represents and warrants to Purchaser that it has not dealt
or negotiated with, or engaged on its own behalf or for its benefit, any Broker
in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
Seller hereby agrees to indemnify, defend and hold Purchaser and its direct and
indirect shareholders, officers, directors, partners, principals, members,
employees, agents, contractors and any successors or assigns of the foregoing,
harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, causes of action, losses,
costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs and
disbursements) arising from any claim for commission, fees or other compensation
or reimbursement for expenses made by or any Broker engaged by or claiming to
have dealt with Seller in connection with this Agreement or the transactions
contemplated hereby.

         (c) The provisions of this SECTION 14 shall survive the termination of
this Agreement or the Closing.

15.      TAX REDUCTION PROCEEDINGS.

         Seller has settled its appeal for the reduction of the assessed
valuation of the Premises for real estate taxes for the New York City fiscal
year July 1, 2001 to June 30, 2002 (the "2001/2002 TAX YEAR"). The amount of any
tax refunds (net of attorneys' fees and other costs of obtaining such tax
refunds) with respect to any portion of the Premises shall be apportioned
between Seller and Purchaser as of the Apportionment Date and the party
receiving such refund from the taxing authority shall pay to the other party any
amount thereof which the other party is entitled to receive within ten (10)
business days following receipt of the funds resulting from such refund. If, in
lieu of a tax refund, a tax credit is received with respect to any portion of
the Premises for the tax year in which the


                                      -24-
<Page>

Apportionment Date occurs, then (x) within thirty (30) days after receipt by
Seller or Purchaser, as the case may be, of evidence of the actual amount of
such tax credit (net of attorneys' fees and other costs of obtaining such tax
credit), the tax credit apportionment shall be recalculated between Seller and
Purchaser, and (y) within ten (10) business days following realization by
Purchaser of a tax savings on account of such credit, Purchaser shall pay to
Seller an amount equal to the savings realized (as apportioned). All refunds,
credits or other benefits applicable to any fiscal period prior to the Tax Year
during which the Closing Date shall occur shall belong solely to Seller (and
Purchaser shall have no interest therein) and, if the same shall be paid to
Purchaser or anyone acting on behalf of Purchaser, same shall be paid to Seller
within five (5) business days following receipt thereof and, if not timely paid,
with interest thereon from the fifth business day following such receipt until
paid to Seller at a rate equal to the prime rate of interest announced by
Citibank, N.A. from time to time plus three percent (3%). At Closing, Seller
shall deliver a letter from the law firm representing Seller in the tax appeal
which letter shall set forth the fee arrangement between Seller and such counsel
or the tax appeal for the 2001/2002 Tax Year and the status of the tax appeal
proceedings affecting the Premises (the "TAX COUNSEL LETTER"). The provisions of
this SECTION 15 shall survive the Closing.

16.      TRANSFER TAXES, RECORDING CHARGES AND SALES TAXES.

         (a) At the Closing, Seller and Purchaser shall execute, acknowledge,
deliver and file all such returns as may be necessary to comply with Article 31
of the Tax Law of the State of New York and the regulations applicable thereto,
as the same may be amended from time to time (the "RET") and the New York City
Real Property Transfer Tax (Admin. Code Article 21) and the regulations
applicable thereto, as the same may be amended from time to time (the "RPT"). On
the Closing Date, Seller shall pay 48.67% and Purchaser shall pay 51.33% (the
"Percentage Share") of the amounts payable under the RET and RPT, if any.
Purchaser and Seller agree that to the extent there are any refunds or a
shortfall of RET and RPT taxes paid, Purchaser and Seller shall each be entitled
to receive or obligated to pay, as appropriate, their Percentage Share of such
amounts. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Purchaser shall be obligated to pay the
RET and RPT taxes attributable to the RET and RPT taxes paid by Purchaser on
Seller's behalf.

         (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, upon
written request of Seller at least one (1) business days prior to the Closing
Date, Purchaser shall either (i) bring to the Closing separate certified or bank
checks in the amount of the taxes due with respect to the RET and the RPT, if
any, or (ii) on the Closing Date, wire transfer to the Company such amount (with
the Company agreeing in writing to make payment thereof directly to the
appropriate governmental authorities).

         (c) Purchaser shall be liable for the payment of all fees, expenses,
recording charges and taxes in connection with the conveyance of the Property to
Purchaser


                                      -25-
<Page>

(including, without limitation, the cost of all title related expenses and title
insurance purchased by Purchaser in connection with the Closing).

         (d) Seller and Purchaser agree to cooperate reasonably with one another
to minimize the amount of RET and RPT payable in connection with this
transaction.

         (e) Purchaser shall pay all sales and use taxes, if any, in connection
with the transfer of the Property to Purchaser. Purchaser and Seller shall
reasonably cooperate with one another to minimize the amount of such sales and
use tax payable in connection with this transaction.

         (f) By reason of arrangements with the New York City Industrial
Development Agency, dated as of November 1, 2000, certain purchases of materials
and equipment incorporated into or located with the Building were exempt from
New York State and New York City sales and use taxes. The estimated amount of
such exempted taxes is $18,000,000. Purchaser believes that, as a result of the
sale of the Property, repayment may be made of such taxes, together with
interest thereon, and any penalties that may be assessed by the taxing
authorities. In the event Seller repays all or any portion of such taxes,
interest and penalties, Purchaser shall reimburse Seller for fifty percent (50%)
of such amount so paid within fifteen (15) days of receipt of evidence of such
payments, provided that Purchaser's obligation shall not exceed $9,000,000. The
parties agree to cooperate with each other to minimize the amount of the
recapture obligations.

         (g) The provisions of this SECTION 16 shall survive the Closing.

17.      CONDITIONS OF CLOSING; DELIVERIES TO BE MADE ON THE CLOSING DATE.

         (a) It shall be a condition precedent to Seller's obligation to close
hereunder that Seller shall have received a release from the Landlord of all
obligations of Seller under the Ground Lease and of Seller and MS under the
Existing Guaranty and the other Operative Documents accruing from and after the
Closing Date in form acceptable to Seller. It shall be a condition precedent of
Seller's and Purchaser's obligation to close hereunder that Seller shall have
received a written waiver of Landlord's ROFO or, in lieu thereof, the
Negotiation Period shall have expired without, (x) Landlord and Seller having
entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement and (y) Seller having received the
certification (the "CERTIFICATION") from Landlord contemplated by Section 38.1.6
of the Ground Lease confirming that except as otherwise provided in Section
3.8.2 and the terms of Section 38.17 of the Ground Lease the Landlord has no
further rights to purchase the Property.

         (b) SELLER'S DOCUMENTS AND DELIVERIES: On the Closing Date, Seller
shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Purchaser the following:


                                      -26-
<Page>

                  (i) A duly executed and acknowledged Bargain and Sale Deed
Without Covenant Against Grantor's Acts with respect to the Building and
Interior Improvements in the form attached hereto as EXHIBIT 1;

                  (ii) A duly executed Bill of Sale in the form attached hereto
as EXHIBIT 3;

                  (iii) Originals, if available, or true and complete copies of
the Assumed Contracts;

                  (iv) A duly executed certification as to Seller's nonforeign
status as prescribed in SECTION 21 hereof, if appropriate, in the form attached
hereto as EXHIBIT 4;

                  (v) an assignment of all of Seller's rights under (A) the
Pledge of RFN's and RP's respective interests in Landlord and (B) the Agreement
and Acknowledgement of Pledge, dated November 19, 1998, acknowledging the
pledges of RFN and RP of their membership interests in Landlord together with
appropriate UCC transfer instruments to be filed in the appropriate governmental
offices.

                  (vi) Originals if available, or true and complete copies of
all licenses, certificates and permits then in effect with respect to the
operation of the Premises;

                  (vii) The Plans;

                  (viii) Good standing Certificate for Seller issued by the
State of Delaware, evidence of Seller's authority to do business in the State of
New York, an incumbency certificate and a resolution of Seller authorizing the
transactions contemplated hereby;

                  (ix) A certification stating that the representations and
warranties made by Seller in SECTION 11(C) hereof remain true and correct in all
material respects as if made on the Closing Date (or, if not the case,
describing in reasonable detail, any changes thereto, provided that such changes
do not have a material adverse affect on Purchaser's ability to use the Project
for its intended purpose or a material adverse affect on the value of the
Project, in each case taking into account any ongoing obligations of Seller
which, upon performance of such obligations, will eliminate such material
adverse effect);

                  (x) An assignment of the Letter Agreement;

                  (xi) The jointly executed documents referenced in SECTION
17(D);

                  (xii) An Estoppel Certificate from the Landlord in the form
provided in Section 26.1 of the Ground Lease (subject to (a) non-material
modifications thereof, (b) Landlord noting as defaults by Seller any matters
which Seller is obligated to discharge hereunder or otherwise agrees to
discharge, and (c) modifications thereof to conform the same to other
information previously delivered to Purchaser or made available for its


                                      -27-
<Page>

review) or, if an Estoppel Certificate from Landlord is not delivered by Seller,
a indemnity from Seller in favor of Purchaser and LHI from any loss, liability
cost, damage or expense under the Ground Lease or Guaranty arising prior to the
date of Closing. Seller's obligation to indemnify under this section shall be
guaranteed by MSDW at Closing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if following
Closing Seller is able to obtain an Estoppel Certificate from Landlord, Seller
shall be entitled to substitute the Estoppel Certificate and receive a release
of its indemnity and the guaranty thereof by MSDW;

                  (xiii) An estoppel certificate from the New York City Transit
Authority, to the extent contemplated by the Subway Agreement, provided however
that Seller's failure to deliver such certificate shall not be a breach of this
Agreement, or a failure of a condition to close and Purchaser shall be obligated
to close hereunder notwithstanding the non-delivery of such an estoppel
certificate.

                  (xiv) The Tax Counsel Letter;

                  (xv) All keys or combinations for the Property, to the extent
in Seller's possession and control;

                  (xvi) A title affidavit in customary and reasonable form,
provided that such title affidavit shall not increase or modify any
representations made by Seller hereunder;

                  (xvii) At Closing, Purchaser shall receive a credit against
the Purchaser Price in the amount, as reasonably estimated by Seller, of the
aggregate costs that Seller estimates will be required to complete Seller's
original scope of work contemplated by the work to be performed by consultants
and service providers listed on Schedule O annexed hereto with respect to the
post-Closing installation (through user acceptance testing) of all IT Equipment,
including without limitation such installation of the IT Equipment described in
Schedule K annexed hereto. If Purchaser disputes the amount of this credit at
Closing, Purchaser shall receive at Closing the proposed amount and the
appropriate amount of the credit shall be determined by arbitration pursuant to
the arbitration provisions in the Post-Closing Agreement.

                  (xviii) To the extent that Landlord is unwilling to eliminate
from the Substitute Guaranty (x) the obligation to pay the Start Up Fee, (y) the
obligations of Seller under the Development Agreement and (y) the obligations of
tenant under the Ground Lease for matters arising prior to the Closing Date,
Seller shall deliver an indemnity of MSDW from any loss, liability, cost, damage
or expense incurred by Purchaser arising out of Seller's failure to pay the
Start Up Fee, perform its obligations under the Ground Lease or other agreements
covered by such guaranty prior to the Closing Date or perform its obligations
under the Development Agreement; and



                                      -28-
<Page>

                  (xix) title to the IT Equipment.

         (c) PURCHASER'S DOCUMENTS AND DELIVERIES: On the Closing Date,
Purchaser, shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Seller or Landlord, as
indicated below, the following:

                  (i) payment of the balance of the Purchase Price payable at
the Closing, in the manner required under this Agreement;

                  (ii) the jointly executed documents referenced in Section
17(d);

                  (iii) delivery to Landlord of a guaranty of payment and
performance in the form required by Section 22.4.2.2 of the Ground Lease from
Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. ("LHI"), or if LHI does not meet the credit rating
requirements set forth below, another entity rated A by Standard & Poors or A2
by Moody's sufficient to obtain the release of Seller and Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter & Co. ("MSDW") from any further obligations under the Ground Lease or the
Guaranty of even date therewith (the "EXISTING GUARANTY") executed by MS in
favor of Landlord;

                  (iv) an indemnity from LHI in favor of MSDW, Seller and
all Seller Related Parties from any loss, liability, cost, damage, or expense,
under the Ground Lease or the Guaranty arising from after the date of Closing;

                  (v) a certification executed by Purchaser stating that
representations and warranties made by Purchaser in SECTION 36 hereof remain
true and correct in all material respect as of the Closing Date as are being
made by Purchaser in SECTION 36 hereof;

                  (vi) Resolution of Purchaser authorizing the transactions
contemplated hereby, a copy of a good standing certificate for Purchaser issued
by the State of Delaware, evidence of Purchaser's authority to do business in
the State of New York and an incumbency certificate by Purchaser.

         (d) JOINTLY EXECUTED DOCUMENTS: Seller and Purchaser shall, on the
Closing Date, each execute, acknowledge (as appropriate) and exchange the
following documents:

                  (i) The returns required under the RET, the RPT and any other
tax laws applicable to the transactions contemplated herein;

                  (ii) An Assignment and Assumption of Ground Lease in the form
attached hereto as EXHIBIT 2;

                  (iii) An Assignment and Assumption of JV Option Agreement in
the form attached hereto as EXHIBIT 5;


                                      -29-
<Page>

                  (iv) An Assignment and Assumption of Option to Lease Space
Agreement in the form attached hereto as EXHIBIT 6 (it being understood that
Seller shall cause MS to execute, acknowledge and deliver such Assignment and
Assumption as an additional assignor thereunder);

                  (v) An Assignment and Assumption of the Assumed Contracts in
the form attached hereto as EXHIBIT 7;


                  (vi) A General Assignment and Assumption Agreement in the form
attached hereto as EXHIBIT 8;

                  (vii) An Assignment and Assumption of the Management Agreement
in the form attached hereto as EXHIBIT 11;

                  (viii) An Assignment and Assumption of the Plaza Agreement in
the form attached hereto as EXHIBIT 12;

                  (ix) An Assignment and Assumption of the Publicity Agreement
in the form attached hereto as EXHIBIT 13;

                  (x) An Assignment and Assumption of the Rental Agency
Agreement in the form attached hereto as EXHIBIT 14;

                  (xi) The Agreement - Post Closing Obligations in the form
attached hereto as EXHIBIT 15 and the escrow agreement and all other documents
contemplated thereunder; and

                  (xii) Any other affidavit, document or instrument required to
be delivered by Seller or Purchaser on the Closing Date pursuant to the terms of
this Agreement.

18.      CLOSING DATE

         The closing (the "CLOSING") of the transactions contemplated hereunder
shall occur at 10:00 a.m. on November 13, 2001 (such date, or the date Seller
sets for the Closing if Seller shall elect to extend this date pursuant to
SECTION 6 hereof, is herein referred to as the "SCHEDULED CLOSING DATE"; the
actual date of the Closing is herein referred to as the "CLOSING DATE"), at the
offices of Sellers' attorneys, Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson, One New
York Plaza, New York, New York 10004. Time is of the essence as to Purchaser's
obligation to close the transactions contemplated hereunder on the Scheduled
Closing Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Purchaser shall have a one time
right on written notice, to adjourn the Scheduled Closing Date for up to three
(3) business days (the "LATER CLOSING DATE"), time being of the essence for
Purchaser to close the transaction on the Later Closing Date.


                                      -30-
<Page>

19.      NOTICES.

         All notices, demands, requests or other communications (collectively,
"NOTICES") required to be given or which may be given hereunder shall be in
writing and shall be sent by (a) national overnight delivery service, or (b)
personal delivery, addressed as follows:

         (i)      If to Seller:

                                    Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
                                    1633 Broadway
                                    New York, New York  10019
                                    Attention:  David Arena, Managing Director

                                    with a copy to:
                                    Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
                                    1633 Broadway
                                    New York, New York  10019
                                    Attention:  Nan Molofsky
                                                Executive Director

                                    and a copy to:

                                    Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson
                                    One New York Plaza
                                    New York, New York  10004
                                    Attention:  Jonathan L. Mechanic, Esq.

         (ii)     If to Purchaser:

                                    Lehman Brothers, Inc.
                                    101 Hudson Street
                                    Jersey City, New Jersey 07302
                                    Attention:  Mark J. Marcucci

                                    and a copy to:

                                    Office of the General Counsel
                                    Lehman Brothers, Inc.
                                    101 Hudson Street
                                    Jersey City, New Jersey  07302
                                    Attention:  Joseph Polizzotto, Esq.

                                    with a copy to:


                                      -31-
<Page>

                                    Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP
                                    767 5th Avenue
                                    New York, New York  10153
                                    Attention:  Alan A. Lascher, Esq.

         Any Notice so sent by national overnight delivery service or personal
delivery shall be deemed given on the date of receipt or refusal as indicated on
the return receipt, or the receipt of the national overnight delivery service or
personal delivery service. A Notice may be given either by a party or by such
party's attorney. Seller or Purchaser may designate, by not less than five (5)
business days' notice given to the others in accordance with the terms of this
SECTION 19, additional or substituted parties to whom Notices should be sent
hereunder. The provisions of this Section 19 shall survive the termination
hereof or the Closing.

20.      DEFAULT BY PURCHASER OR SELLER.

         (a) If Purchaser shall default in the payment of the Purchase Price or
if Purchaser shall default in the performance of any of its other obligations to
be performed on the Closing Date, Seller's sole remedy by reason thereof shall
be to terminate this Agreement and, upon such termination, Seller shall be
entitled to retain the Deposit as liquidated damages for Purchaser's default
hereunder, it being agreed that the damages by reason of Purchaser's default are
difficult, if not impossible, to ascertain, and thereafter Purchaser and Seller
shall have no further rights or obligations under this Agreement except for
those that are expressly provided in this Agreement to survive the termination
hereof. If Seller terminates this Agreement pursuant to a right given to it
hereunder and Purchaser takes any action which interferes with Seller's ability
to sell, exchange, transfer, lease, dispose of or finance the Property or take
any other actions with respect thereto (including, without limitation, the
filing of any lis pendens or other form of attachment against the Property),
then the named Purchaser (and any assignee of Purchaser's interest hereunder)
shall be liable for all loss, cost, damage, liability or expense (including,
without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs and disbursements
and consequential damages) incurred by Seller by reason of such action to
contest by Purchaser (collectively, "INTERFERENCE DAMAGES"); provided that the
named Purchaser (and any such assignee) shall have no such liability for such
Interference Damages if it shall be determined by a final order of a court of
competent jurisdiction that Seller shall not have been entitled to terminate
this Agreement.

         (b) If Seller shall default in any of its obligations to be performed
on the Closing Date Purchaser as its sole remedy by reason thereof (in lieu of
prosecuting an action for damages (whether direct or consequential) or
proceeding with any other legal course of conduct, the right to bring such
actions or proceedings being expressly and voluntarily waived by Purchaser, to
the extent legally permissible, following and upon


                                      -32-
<Page>

advice of its counsel) shall have the right subject to the other provisions of
this SECTION 20(B) (i) to seek to obtain specific performance of Seller's
obligations hereunder, provided that any action for specific performance shall
be commenced within sixty (60) days after such default (failing which Purchaser
shall be deemed to have waived such remedy) or (ii) to terminate this Agreement
(by delivering notice thereof to Seller) and to receive a return of the Deposit.
If Purchaser fails to commence an action for specific performance within sixty
(60) days after such default, Purchaser's sole remedy shall be to receive a
return of the Deposit. Upon such return and delivery, this Agreement shall
terminate and neither party hereto shall have any further obligations hereunder
except for those that are expressly provided in this Agreement to survive the
termination hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Purchaser shall have no right
to seek specific performance if Seller shall be prohibited from performing its
obligations hereunder by reason of any law, regulation, or other legal
requirement applicable to Seller.

         (c) The provisions of this SECTION 20 shall survive the termination
hereof.

21.      FIRPTA COMPLIANCE.

         Seller shall comply with the provisions of the Foreign Investment in
Real Property Tax Act, Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as
amended), as the same may be amended from time to time, or any successor or
similar law (collectively, "FIRPTA"). Seller acknowledges that Section 1445 of
the Internal Revenue Code provides that a transferee of a United States real
property interest must withhold tax if the transferor is a foreign person. To
inform Purchaser that withholding of tax is not required upon the disposition of
a United States real property interest by Seller, Seller hereby represents and
warrants that Seller is not a foreign person as that term is defined in the
Internal Revenue Code and Income Tax Regulations. On the Closing Date, Seller
shall deliver to Purchaser a certification as to Seller's non-foreign status in
the form attached hereto as EXHIBIT 4, and shall comply with any temporary or
final regulations promulgated with respect thereto and any relevant revenue
procedures or other officially published announcements of the Internal Revenue
Service of the U.S. Department of the Treasury in connection therewith.

22.      ENTIRE AGREEMENT.

         Except as set forth in SECTION 29 hereof, this Agreement, including all
schedules and exhibits hereto, contains all of the terms agreed upon between
Seller and Purchaser with respect to the subject matter hereof, and all prior
agreements, understandings, representations and statements, oral or written,
between Seller and Purchaser are merged into this Agreement. The provisions of
this SECTION 22 shall survive the Closing or the termination hereof.



                                      -33-
<Page>

23.      AMENDMENTS.

         This Agreement may not be changed, modified or terminated, except by an
instrument executed by Seller and Purchaser. The provisions of this SECTION 23
shall survive the Closing or the termination hereof.

24.      WAIVER.

         No waiver by either party of any failure or refusal by the other party
to comply with its obligations shall be deemed a waiver of any other or
subsequent failure or refusal to so comply. The provisions of this SECTION 24
shall survive the Closing or the termination hereof.

25.      PARTIAL INVALIDITY.

         If any term or provision of this Agreement or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance shall, to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable,
the remainder of this Agreement, or the application of such term or provision to
persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid or
unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby, and each term and provision of
this Agreement shall be valid and shall be enforced to the fullest extent
permitted by law. The provisions of this SECTION 25 shall survive the Closing or
the termination hereof.

26.      SECTION HEADINGS.

         The headings of the various sections of this Agreement have been
inserted only for the purposes of convenience, and are not part of this
Agreement and shall not be deemed in any manner to modify, explain, expand or
restrict any of the provisions of this Agreement. The provisions of this SECTION
26 shall survive the Closing or the termination hereof.

27.      GOVERNING LAW.

         This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York
without giving effect to conflict of laws principles thereof. The provisions of
this SECTION 27 shall survive the Closing or the termination hereof.

28.      PARTIES; ASSIGNMENT AND RECORDING.

         (a) This Agreement and the various rights and obligations arising
hereunder shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon Seller and Purchaser
and their respective successors and permitted assigns.


                                      -34-
<Page>

         (b) Purchaser may not assign or otherwise transfer this Agreement or
any of its rights or obligations hereunder or any of the direct or indirect
ownership interests in Purchaser, without first obtaining Seller's consent
thereto, which consent Seller may grant or withhold in its sole and absolute
discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Purchaser shall have the right to
assign this Agreement to (1) one or more affiliates of Purchaser, (2) an entity
or entities established by Purchaser for the purpose of providing synthetic
lease or other financing, or (3) an entity or entities established in order to
obtain governmental economic benefits for the Premises provided that (i) any
such assignment shall be subject to the provisions of the Ground Lease; (ii) LHI
shall execute and deliver the Substitute Guaranty and (iii) Purchaser shall have
provided Seller with reasonable notice of such proposed assignment no later than
five (5) days prior to Closing.

         (c) Neither this Agreement nor any memorandum hereof shall be recorded.

         (d) The provisions of SECTION 28(A) and 28(C) shall survive the Closing
or the termination hereof. The provisions of SECTION 28(B) shall survive the
termination hereof.

29.      CONFIDENTIALITY AND PRESS RELEASES.

         (a) Purchaser shall continue to comply with the provisions of the
confidentiality agreement, dated October 5, 2001 (the "CONFIDENTIALITY
AGREEMENT") heretofore executed by or on behalf of Purchaser and shall maintain
as confidential all "Information" (including, without limitation, all
information obtained in connection with Purchaser's access and inspection of the
Premises under SECTION 3 hereof) in accordance with the provisions thereof.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of paragraph 6 of the
Confidentiality Agreement are deemed of no further force and effect and are
superceded by the provisions of this Agreement.

         (b) Between the date hereof through and including the Closing Date and
except as otherwise expressly provided in clause (c) below, Purchaser and Seller
shall not (and shall cause their respective agents, employees, attorneys and
advisors including, without limitation, financial institutions to not) disclose,
make known, divulge, disseminate or communicate the Purchase Price or any of the
terms of this Agreement or this transaction or any agreement, document or
understanding pertinent to the instant transaction without the consent of the
other party, except (i) as required by law (including, without limitation, in
connection with any securities filings), (ii) to Purchaser's and Seller's
directors, employees and advisors (including those of its affiliates) involved
in the transaction, (iii) to Purchaser's prospective lenders or investors.

         (c) Prior to the Closing, Seller and Purchaser shall confer and agree
upon a press release disclosing the transaction and shall jointly issue such
release at an appropriate time, agreed to by Seller and Purchaser, following the
Closing. After the Closing, subject to the terms of the Publicity Agreement,
Seller and Purchaser may issue


                                      -35-
<Page>

additional press releases which do not contain confidential information and
which do not make reference to the other party (unless the other party consents
thereto).

         (d) Except as may be required by any law, rule or regulation of a
governmental authority, by court order or by applicable accounting standards,
Seller shall not publicly describe the transaction other than as a reflection of
the approximate cost that Seller has or intends to spend on the Property.

         (e) The provisions of SECTION 29(A) shall survive the termination of
this Agreement and the provisions of SECTION 29(B) and SECTION 29(C) shall
survive the termination hereof or the Closing.

30.      FURTHER ASSURANCES.

         Seller and Purchaser will do, execute, acknowledge and deliver all and
every such further acts, deeds, conveyances, assignments, notices, transfers and
assurances as may be reasonably required by the other party, for the better
assuring, conveying, assigning, transferring and confirming unto Purchaser the
Property and for carrying out the intentions or facilitating the consummation of
this Agreement. The provisions of this SECTION 30 shall survive the Closing.

31.      THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARY.

         This Agreement is an agreement solely for the benefit of Seller and
Purchaser (and their permitted successors and/or assigns). No other person,
party or entity shall have any rights hereunder nor shall any other person,
party or entity be entitled to rely upon the terms, covenants and provisions
contained herein. The provisions of this SECTION 31 shall survive the Closing or
the termination hereof.

32.      JURISDICTION AND SERVICE OF PROCESS.

         The parties hereto agree to submit to personal jurisdiction in the
State of New York in any action or proceeding arising out of this Agreement and,
in furtherance of such agreement, the parties hereby agree and consent that
without limiting other methods of obtaining jurisdiction, personal jurisdiction
over the parties in any such action or proceeding may be obtained within or
without the jurisdiction of any court located in New York and that any process
or notice of motion or other application to any such court in connection with
any such action or proceeding may be served upon the parties by registered or
certified mail to or by personal service at the last known address of the
parties, whether such address be within or without the jurisdiction of any such
court. The provisions of this SECTION 32 shall survive the Closing or the
termination hereof.


                                      -36-
<Page>

33.      WAIVER OF TRIAL BY JURY.

         SELLER AND PURCHASER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVE ANY
AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, SUIT OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING IN
CONNECTION WITH, OUT OF OR OTHERWISE RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT. THE PROVISIONS
OF THIS SECTION 33 SHALL SURVIVE THE CLOSING OR THE TERMINATION HEREOF.

34.      MISCELLANEOUS.

         (a) Whenever in this Agreement it is provided that Purchaser's
successors and/or transferees and/or assignees shall have any rights or
obligations, such phrase shall be deemed to include all designees of Purchaser
as well as all of the transferees, successors and assigns of Purchaser and such
designees.

         (b) This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of
which shall be deemed an original and together constitute one and the same
instrument.

         (c) Any consent or approval to be given hereunder (whether by Seller or
Purchaser) shall not be effective unless in writing. Except as otherwise
expressly provided herein, any consent or approval requested of Seller or
Purchaser shall not be unreasonably withheld by Seller or Purchaser.

         (d) The provisions of this SECTION 34 shall survive the Closing or the
termination hereof.

         (e) This Agreement shall not be assignable by Seller.

         (f) The submission of this document and all subsequent drafts by Seller
or its attorneys shall not be deemed an offer by Seller to sell or Purchaser to
purchase the Property on the terms set forth in such drafts and such document or
draft may be withdrawn or modified by Seller or its agent at any time or for any
reason. Neither this document nor any draft shall be effective nor shall either
party have any rights or obligations with respect to the Property or under this
Agreement unless and until Seller and Purchaser shall have executed this
document and delivered same to the other and all the conditions to the
effectiveness hereof contained herein shall have been met.

         (g) The provisions of this Section 34 shall survive the Closing or the
termination hereof.


                                      -37-
<Page>

35.      ORGANIZATIONAL REPRESENTATIONS.

         (a) Seller hereby represents and warrants to Purchaser that (i) Seller
is a duly organized limited liability company which is in valid existence under
the laws of the State of Delaware, (ii) Seller is in good standing and
authorized to do business in the State of New York and (iii) Seller's execution
of this Agreement and the performance of its obligations hereunder have been
duly authorized by all necessary limited liability company action.

         (b) Purchaser hereby represents and warrants to Seller that (i)
Purchaser is a duly organized corporation which is in valid existence and in
good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, (ii) Purchaser is in good
standing and authorized to do business in the state of New York and (ii)
Purchaser's execution of this Agreement and the performance of its obligations
hereunder have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action.

         (c) The provisions of this SECTION 35 shall survive the Closing.

36.      CERTAIN GROUND LEASE PROVISIONS.

         (a) Purchaser acknowledges that pursuant to Article 38 of the Ground
Lease Landlord has a right of first offer ("ROFO") with respect to any sale of
the Property. Seller has requested that Landlord waive such ROFO in writing;
provided, however, that Seller shall incur no liability if Landlord fails to do
so. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller has sent Landlord a notice (a copy of
which is attached hereto as Schedule M) as required under the Ground Lease. If
Landlord fails timely to give a Negotiation Notice (as defined in the Ground
Lease) to Seller, the parties shall proceed to close the transaction as
contemplated hereby. If Landlord gives a Negotiation Notice, then the Scheduled
Closing Date shall be postponed until the end of the 60-day Negotiation Period.
If such Negotiation Period shall expire without Landlord and Seller entering
into a Purchase and Sale Agreement and Seller receives the Certification or
waives the requirements for such Certification, then Seller shall notify
Purchaser and the parties shall promptly proceed to Closing. If Landlord and
Seller shall enter into a purchase and Sale Agreement pursuant to the ROFO, then
Seller shall have the right to terminate this Agreement and close on the sale to
Landlord pursuant to the terms of such purchase and sale agreement. In such
event, the Deposit shall be returned to Purchaser and neither Purchaser nor
Seller shall have any further obligations to other except those, if any, as are
expressly stated herein to survive such termination.

         (b) Seller and Purchaser agree to cooperate with one another in all
respects in order to comply with the requirements of Article 22 of the Ground
Lease to effect, as of the Closing Date, a permitted "Restricted Transfer" of
the Seller's interest in the Ground Lease (as such term is defined in the Ground
Lease) and to obtain (i) confirmation from


                                      -38-
<Page>

Landlord that Seller has complied with the provisions of Article 22 and (ii) a
release of Tenant and Guarantor (as defined in the Ground Lease) from any
further obligations under the Ground Lease, the Existing Guaranty and other
Operative Documents accruing from and after the date of such assignment.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller and MS shall remain responsible for all of
the monetary obligations of Seller under the Development Agreement between
Seller and Rockefeller Group Development Corporation dated November 19, 1998
(the "DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT"). The execution and delivery by Landlord of the
confirmation and release referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above shall be a
condition to Seller's obligation to close hereunder.

         (ii) Immediately after the execution of this Agreement, pursuant to
Section 22.4.5 of the Ground Lease, Seller and Purchaser shall submit to
Landlord (A) the notice of the proposed transaction contemplated by ss. 22.4.5,
(B) certified financial statements for the substitute guarantor LHI prepared in
accordance with GAAP for the three (3) full years prior to the proposed
transfer, (C) a form of substitute guaranty to be executed by LHI as required by
Section 22.4.2.2.1 of the Ground Lease substantially in the form attached hereto
as Exhibit 9, (D) a copy of the proposed instrument(s) of assignment of the
Ground Lease containing, INTER ALIA, the name, address and telephone number of
the assignee substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit 2, (E) a copy
of the proposed instrument(s) of assumption by Purchaser containing, INTER ALIA,
the name, address and telephone number of the assignee substantially in the form
attached hereto as Exhibit 2, (F) if the assignee is not a Public Company, the
affidavit required pursuant to ss. 22.4.5.5 of the Ground Lease, and (G)
Purchaser shall also deliver an opinion of counsel of LHI as to the power and
authority of LHI to execute and deliver such substitute guaranty which opinion
shall be substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit 10.

         (iii) The parties will cooperate with one another to seek to obtain the
confirmation and release contemplated under paragraph (b) above including,
without limitation, if appropriate in Seller's reasonable judgment, the
commencement of any arbitration proceeding contemplated by Article 22 of the
Ground Lease.

         (iv) At Seller's election, Seller may, in its sole and absolute
discretion, accept in lieu of all or a portion of the release provided for in
paragraph (b)(ii) above, an indemnity from LHI against any loss, liability,
cost, damages or expense including, without limitation, all reasonable legal
fees and disbursements, arising out of any obligation under the Existing
Guaranty or the Operative Documents which is not released by Landlord and which
accrues at any time from and after the date of Closing except to the extent the
same relates to the Development Agreement which shall in all events remain the
liability of Seller and MS.


                                      -39-
<Page>

37.      CONDITION OF PREMISES AT CLOSING.

         (a) Pursuant to this Agreement, Seller is conveying to Purchaser, the
Building, the Interior Improvements, the FF&E, the IT Equipment and the Exterior
Signs being installed in the Building presently under construction on the Land
pursuant to the Base Building Plans, the Interior Improvement Plans, the FF&E
Specifications, the IT Equipment Specifications, the Exterior Signs
Specifications and all specifications, drawings and sketches underlying
so-called change orders to the foregoing (collectively, the "PLANS"). Seller
also has certain obligations to complete in accordance with the Plans and the
approvals granted Seller by local governmental authorities ("APPROVALS"),
certain site improvements as set forth on SCHEDULE G hereto (the "HOIST RELATED
WORK"), certain work required by the Subway Agreement, (the "SUBWAY WORK") and
to dedicate, in accordance with the Approvals, certain space in the Building for
entertainment use to comply with the entertainment requirement of the district
within which the Premises are located (the "DEDICATION REQUIREMENT"). Subject to
Section (b) below, Seller agrees, following the Closing Date, to substantially
complete the work contemplated by the Plans (the "PROJECT"), including the Hoist
Related Work and the Subway Work and to satisfy the Dedication Requirement,
subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the terms of the Post
Closing Agreement.

         (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of SECTION 37(a) above Purchaser
shall have the one-time right, exercisable on or before November 1, 2001, TIME
BEING OF THE ESSENCE, to notify Seller that Purchaser elects to have Seller
cease, as of the Closing Date, to perform any Interior Improvements and to
deliver and install any FF&E and IT Equipment (i) on one or more, but less than
all, of the floors of the Building (a "STOP WORK NOTICE") or (ii) in the entire
Building (a "FULL STOP ELECTION"). Upon receipt of a Stop Work Notice or Full
Stop Election, Seller shall notify the respective Contractors responsible for
the substantial completion of the work on the floor or floors for which a Stop
Work Notice or a Full Stop Election has been given and obtain from such
Contractors a determination of the amount of credit, if any, that will be given
by such Contractor(s) as a result thereof. Purchaser and Seller agree that as to
any floor or floor for which a Stop Work Notice has been received, Seller shall
deliver such floor to Purchaser on the Closing Date in its then "as is"
condition and credit Purchaser, at Closing, with an amount equal to the credits
actually given to Seller by those Contractors whose work has been stopped or
cancelled on such floor or floors. In the event Purchaser delivers a Full Stop
Election, any credit shall be determined as provided in paragraph 10(b) of the
Post Closing Agreement. Upon receipt of a Full Stop Election, Seller shall
notify Turner Construction ("TURNER") and obtain from Turner a determination of
the amount then due and payable under Turner's agreement with Seller to perform
the Interior Improvements. In the event of a Full Stop Election, (A) Seller
shall deliver to Purchaser on the Closing Date the entire Building in its then
"as is" condition (except for Seller's remaining obligations with respect to
Base Building Work and obtaining the Zero


                                      -40-
<Page>

Occupancy TCO), (B) [INTENTIONALLY DELETED] and (C) Seller shall assign to
Purchaser at Closing all of the FF&E Contracts and the IT Contracts, as such
terms are defined in the Post Closing Agreement, other than any thereof
providing for Excluded Personalty or which Seller would otherwise not be
obligated to perform for Purchaser under the Post Closing Agreement in the
absence of any Stop Work Notice or Full Stop Election. In no event shall the
agreement between seller and Turner by assigned to Purchaser without Turner's
consent.

         (c) The provisions of this Article 37 shall survive Closing.

38.      LIMITATION ON EMPLOYMENT.

         So as not to interfere with the timely completion of the Improvements,
Purchaser agrees on behalf of itself and its affiliates that it shall not
solicit for employment, hire or otherwise utilize the services of any individual
or entity directly or indirectly, who has performed or hereafter performs
services relating to the design, development, construction or operation of the
Premises for or on behalf of MSDW, MS or any Seller Related Parties, directly or
indirectly (the "PROJECT PERSONNEL") without Seller's prior consent (which may
be written or oral, but if oral, thereafter confirmed in writing), which consent
may be withheld if in MSDW's reasonable discretion MSDW believes that such
employment shall have an adverse affect on the final completion of the Premises.
This restriction shall terminate on the date Purchaser acknowledges in writing
that final completion of the Premises has occurred. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, Purchaser shall not be precluded from continuing its relationships
with such entities or persons employed thereby with whom Purchaser has an
existing relationship and may engage Hines as an Advisor provided that the
employees of Hines acting on behalf of Purchaser shall be subject to the
limitations of this Section. Prior to final completion of the Project, subject
to a written agreement between the parties Seller may assign and Purchaser
assume one or more of the contracts relating to the final completion of the
Project, at which time this restriction shall no longer be applicable to such
contractor and its employees. The provisions of this Article 38 shall survive
Closing.


                                      -41-
<Page>


         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Seller and Purchaser have caused this Agreement to
be executed the day and year first above written.

                                            SELLER:
                                            -------

                                            MSDW 745, LLC

                                            By:  MS Financing, Inc.


                                                 By: /s/ Roger Hochschild
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                    Name:  Roger Hochschild
                                                    Title: Vice President


                                            PURCHASER:
                                            ----------

                                            LB 745 LLC


                                            By: /s/ Joseph M. Gregory
                                               ---------------------------------
                                               Name:  Joseph M. Gregory
                                               Title: Chief Administrative
                                                      Officer


                                      -42-
<Page>


                         [Schedules and Exhibits Omitted]

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.16
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>a2071673zex-10_16.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.16
<TEXT>
<Page>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.16

                    AMENDMENT TO PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

            AMENDMENT TO PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT (this "AGREEMENT") made as
      of the 19th day of October, 2001 between MSDW 745, LLC, a Delaware limited
      liability company, having an address at 1633 Broadway, New York, N.Y.
      10036 ("SELLER") and LB 745 LLC, a Delaware limited liability company,
      having an address at 101 Hudson Street, Jersey City, New Jersey 07302
      ("PURCHASER").

                              W I T N E S S E T H :
                              - - - - - - - - - -


      WHEREAS, Purchaser and Seller entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement
dated as of October 19, 2001(the "PSA"); and

      WHEREAS, Purchaser and Seller desire to amend the PSA as set for herein.

      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants
and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as
follows:

      Section 4 of the PSA is deleted in its entirety and the following is
substituted in its place and stead:

            "4.   PURCHASE PRICE AND DEPOSIT.

            The purchase price to be paid by Purchaser to Seller for the
      Property (the "PURCHASE PRICE") is Seven Hundred Forty Eight Million
      Dollars ($748,000,000). The Purchase Price shall be allocated between: (a)
      Ground Leasehold - $458,852,685, (b) Building and Interior Improvements -
      $153,947,315 and (c) FF&E - $135,200,000. The Purchase Price shall be
      payable as follows:

                  (a) Simultaneously with the execution of this Agreement by
      Purchaser, Purchaser is delivering directly to Fried, Frank, Harris,
      Shriver & Jacobson, as escrow agent ("ESCROW AGENT") by wire transfer the
      amount of One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000) (the "DEPOSIT"). The
      Deposit shall be held in an interest bearing escrow account by Escrow
      Agent in accordance with an escrow agreement between Seller, Purchaser and
      Escrow Agent, executed simultaneously herewith. The Deposit shall be
      delivered by Escrow Agent to Seller or Purchaser as hereinafter provided
      in this Agreement and the Escrow Agreement. All references in this
      Agreement to the Deposit shall mean the Deposit and all interest accrued
      thereon.

<Page>

                  (b) At the Closing, Escrow Agent shall deliver the Deposit to
      Seller (it being understood that any interest on the Deposit shall not be
      credited to the Purchase Price) and Purchaser shall deliver the balance of
      the Purchase Price as follows:

                        (i) $619,500,000, subject to adjustment as provided in
      ARTICLE 7 to Seller; and

                        (ii) $28,500,000 to Escrow Agent, or such other party
      agreed to by the parties, as escrow agent, to be held and disbursed
      pursuant to the Agreement as to Post Closing Obligations, attached hereto
      as EXHIBIT 15 (the "POST CLOSING AGREEMENT").

                  (c) All monies payable by Purchaser under this Agreement,
      unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, shall be paid by wire
      transfer of immediately available federal funds for credit to such bank
      account or accounts specified by Seller, and divided into such amounts as
      may be required to consummate the transactions contemplated by this
      Agreement.

                  As used in this Agreement, the term "BUSINESS DAY" shall mean
      every day other than Saturdays, Sundays, all days observed by the federal
      or New York State government as legal holidays and all days on which
      commercial banks in New York State are required by law to be closed.

                  (d) Except as otherwise specified in Sections 6(b), 12(a)(ii),
      13(a)(ii) and 20(b) of this Agreement, the Deposit shall be
      non-refundable. The provisions of this Section 4(d) shall survive the
      termination of this Agreement."

      Except as herein modified, the PSA is in full force and effect.


<Page>



      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Seller and Purchaser have caused this Agreement to be
executed as of the day and year first above written.

                              SELLER:
                              MSDW 745, LLC

                              By:  MS Financing, Inc.


                                 By: /s/ Nan Molofsky
                                    --------------------------
                                    Name: Nan Molofsky
                                    Title:  Vice President


                              PURCHASER:
                              LB 745 LLC

                              By: /s/ Mark Marcucci
                                 -----------------------------
                                 Mark Marcucci
                                 Authorized Signatory


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.17
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>a2071673zex-10_17.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.17
<TEXT>
<Page>


                                                                  Exhibit 10.17





                               JV OPTION AGREEMENT






                              ROCK-FORTY-NINTH LLC

                                    Landlord

                                     -with-


                                 MSDW 745, LLC

                                     Tenant




                            Dated: November 19, 1998



                                   Premises:

              Land known as 745 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York



                THIS JV OPTION AGREEMENT MAY NOT BE MODIFIED OR
            AMENDED EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 12 (b) HEREOF.

<Page>


                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

Agreement                                                                   Page
- ---------                                                                   ----

1.       Certain Definitions.  ................................................1

2.       Exercise of Option....................................................2

3.       Assignment............................................................5

4.       Arbitration; Disputes.................................................6

5.       Notices; Jurisdiction.................................................7

6.       Costs and Expenses....................................................8

7.       Name of Joint Venture.................................................9

8.       Continuing Leases.....................................................9

9.       Default...............................................................9

10.      Lease Options........................................................10

11.      Shared Capital Improvements.  .......................................13

12.      Miscellaneous Provisions.............................................18

13.      Bankruptcy Remote Entity.............................................19

1.       Defined Terms; Section References.  ................................A-1

2.       Co-Venturers........................................................A-1

3.       Purpose.............................................................A-2

4.       Principal Office....................................................A-2

5.       Initial Capital Contributions; Percentage Interests;
         Apportionments......................................................A-2

6.       Additional Capital Contributions; Advances to the Joint Venture.....A-9

7.       Distributions; Profits and Losses.  ...............................A-10

                                        i
<Page>

8.       Control and Management.............................................A-11

9.       Duration...........................................................A-17

10.      Transfer of Interests..............................................A-17

11.      Disputes; Buy-Sell.  ..............................................A-25

12.      Withdrawal or Bankruptcy...........................................A-29

13.      Tax Matters........................................................A-29

14.      Borrowing..........................................................A-30

15.      Outside Transactions...............................................A-30

16.      Fair Market Value..................................................A-30

17.      Limit of Liability.................................................A-32

18.      Leasing Agent......................................................A-32

19.      Affiliate Contracts................................................A-34

20.      Events of Default; Remedies........................................A-34

21.      Estoppel Certificates.  ...........................................A-37

22.      Cooperation by Venturers...........................................A-37

23.      Other Terms........................................................A-37


                                       ii

<Page>

                               JV OPTION AGREEMENT

                  THIS JV OPTION AGREEMENT (this "AGREEMENT") made as of the
19th day of November, 1998 between ROCK-FORTY-NINTH LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company, having an office c/o Rockefeller Group, Inc., 1221 Avenue of
the Americas, New York, New York 10022 (and its permitted successors and
assigns, "LAND OWNER"), and MSDW 745, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
(and its permitted successors and assigns, "BUILDING OWNER"), having an office
at 1585 Broadway, New York, New York 10036.

                              W I T N E S S E T H :
                              - - - - - - - - - -


                  WHEREAS, Land Owner and Building Owner have, on the date
hereof, entered into a Ground Lease (as amended, restated, supplemented or
otherwise modified from time to time, the "GROUND LEASE") for the lease of
certain land known as 745 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York (the "LAND") upon
the terms and conditions more particularly set forth in the Ground Lease;

                  WHEREAS, subject to the terms of the Ground Lease, Building
Owner shall construct, maintain and operate the Building (as defined in the
Ground Lease) on the Land;

                  WHEREAS, Land Owner and Building Owner have agreed that each
party shall have an option, exercisable in the manner set forth below, to cause
Land Owner to contribute and convey the Land and all of Land Owner's interest in
the Ground Lease to Building Owner on January 1, 2032 (the "OPTION EFFECTIVE
DATE") in exchange for Land Owner being admitted as a fifty percent (50%) owner
in Building Owner;

                  WHEREAS, if Land Owner or Building Owner exercises such
option, from and after the Option Effective Date, Land Owner and Building Owner
Member (as defined in Exhibit A hereto) shall be equal co-venturers in the Joint
Venture (hereinafter defined), all upon the terms more particularly set forth
herein.

                  NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the
sufficiency of which the parties hereby acknowledge, the parties agree as
follows:

1.       CERTAIN DEFINITIONS.

         1.       Certain capitalized terms used herein and in EXHIBIT A annexed
                  hereto shall be defined on the pages indicated on Annex I
                  hereto, which is hereby incorporated by reference.

         2.       All other capitalized terms used herein without definition
                  shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the
                  Ground Lease.


<Page>

         3.       For all purposes in this Agreement (including EXHIBIT A
                  hereto), the term "BUILDING OWNER" shall mean MSDW 745, LLC
                  (and its successors and assigns permitted hereunder) as of any
                  date prior to the Option Effective Date and the formation of
                  the Joint Venture and the term "JOINT VENTURE" shall refer to
                  MSDW 745, LLC (and its successors and assigns permitted
                  hereunder) as such name may be modified in accordance with the
                  terms hereof or the JVA as of any date on and after the Option
                  Effective Date.

         4.       The term "PROJECT" shall mean all of the Land Owner's and
                  Building Owner's respective interests in the Land, the
                  Building and the Ground Lease.

2.       EXERCISE OF OPTION. The options set forth herein shall be exercised as
         follows:

         1.       On or after December 1, 2027, but prior to June 1, 2028, time
                  being of the essence with respect thereto, Land Owner shall
                  have the option, upon written notice to Building Owner, to
                  require Building Owner to admit Land Owner as a fifty percent
                  (50%) owner in Building Owner in exchange for the conveyance
                  by Land Owner of the Land and all of Land Owner's interest in
                  the Ground Lease to Building Owner, subject to and in
                  accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Failure to so
                  timely elect shall be deemed a waiver of Land Owner's option
                  to so elect.

         2.       If Land Owner has not exercised its option as set forth in
                  SECTION 2(A), on or after September 1, 2028, but prior to
                  March 1, 2029, time being of the essence with respect thereto,
                  Building Owner shall have the option, upon written notice to
                  Land Owner to require Land Owner to convey the Land and all of
                  Land Owner's interest in the Ground Lease to Building Owner in
                  exchange for the admission of Land Owner as a fifty (50%)
                  owner in Building Owner, subject to and in accordance with the
                  terms of this Agreement. Failure to so timely elect shall be
                  deemed a waiver of Building Owner's option to so elect.

         3.       Within ninety (90) days after the exercise of either of the
                  options set forth in SECTIONS 2(A) or 2(B), above, unless the
                  parties agree otherwise, Building Owner shall deliver to Land
                  Owner a form of amended and restated Operating Agreement for
                  Building Owner (the "JVA") setting forth the terms upon which
                  the Joint Venture shall be operated from and after the Option
                  Effective Date. The JVA shall incorporate the terms and
                  conditions set forth on EXHIBIT A annexed hereto, and such
                  other terms which are mutually agreeable to the parties or
                  which are determined by arbitration as provided herein. Within
                  such ninety (90) day period, Building Owner shall also deliver
                  to Land Owner, to the extent not previously provided to Land
                  Owner or its Affiliates, copies of the documents described in
                  clauses (i) and (ii) below together with schedules or
                  statements containing the information described in clauses
                  (iii), (iv) and (v) below (collectively, the "DUE DILIGENCE
                  DOCUMENTS"):


                                       2
<Page>

         1.       Unaudited copies of the most recent financial statements of
                  Building Owner, certified by Building Owner, or, if previously
                  prepared by or for Building Owner, audited copies of such
                  financial statements (it being understood that Building Owner
                  shall be under no obligation to cause audited financial
                  statements to be prepared), together with statements of cash
                  flow as well as such other information about the operations
                  and financial condition of Building Owner as Land Owner shall
                  reasonably request and as shall be in Building Owner's
                  possession or control (collectively, the "FINANCIAL
                  STATEMENTS"). Each of the Financial Statements shall be dated
                  as of a date which is not more than twelve (12) months prior
                  to the date the same are delivered to Land Owner.

         2.       All material contracts, abstracts of insurance policies
                  (abstracting all terms and conditions relating to the Project)
                  and other material documents and agreements to which Building
                  Owner is a party, or which benefit or burden Building Owner or
                  the Building and are in Building Owner's possession or
                  control, and which will not be terminated as of the Option
                  Effective Date.

         3.       A description of all litigation and arbitration, pending or
                  threatened in writing, to Building Owner's knowledge, against
                  Building Owner or the Building.

         4.       A list of employees of Building Owner and their positions and
                  salaries.

         5.       A statement as to the organizational structure of the Building
                  Owner.

         The Due Diligence Documents shall be accompanied by a certificate of
         Building Owner, dated as of the date on which the Due Diligence
         Documents are delivered (a "DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE") stating that
         (x) the Financial Statements required to be delivered to Land Owner
         pursuant to clause (i) above are, to Building Owner's best knowledge,
         true, accurate and complete in all material respects as of the date
         made (which date shall not be more than twelve (12) months prior to the
         date the same are delivered to Land Owner) and that, to Building
         Owner's best knowledge, there have been no material adverse changes to
         the matters set forth therein since the date thereof (or alternatively,
         setting forth any such material adverse change in reasonable detail),
         (y) that the schedules and other information required to be delivered
         to Land Owner pursuant to clauses (iii), (iv) and (v) above are true,
         accurate and complete in all material respects, and (z) Building Owner
         has delivered to Land Owner true and complete copies of all documents
         required to be delivered to Land Owner pursuant to clause (ii) above.

4.       Building Owner shall deliver to Land Owner annually, within ten (10)
         Business Days after the anniversary of the date on which either of the
         options in Section 2(a) or Section 2(b) was exercised but not after the
         Option Effective Date, updated Financial Statements, dated not more
         than twelve (12) months prior to the date of delivery, and other Due
         Diligence Documents to the extent not previously


                                       3
<Page>

         delivered or necessary to reflect changes to prior Due Diligence
         Documents previously delivered, and an updated Due Diligence
         Certificate with respect to the items so delivered. In addition to the
         annual updates referred to in the previous sentence, on the Option
         Effective Date, Building Owner shall deliver updated Financial
         Statements, dated not more than twelve (12) months prior to the date of
         delivery, and other Due Diligence Documents to the extent not
         previously delivered or necessary to reflect changes to prior Due
         Diligence Documents previously delivered and an updated Due Diligence
         Certificate, and thereafter, within ninety (90) days after the Option
         Effective Date, Building Owner shall deliver Financial Statements as of
         the Option Effective Date accompanied by a Due Diligence Certificate
         with respect to such Financial Statements dated as of the date that
         such Financial Statements are delivered. Notwithstanding anything
         contained herein to the contrary, Land Owner shall be under no
         obligation to transfer its interest in the Land to Building Owner as
         provided herein until Building Owner has delivered to Land Owner all
         material Due Diligence Documents and Due Diligence Certificates
         required pursuant to Section 2(c) above and this Section 2(d) to the
         extent required to be delivered on or before the Option Effective Date
         (it being understood and agreed that Building Owner shall not be in
         default hereunder and Land Owner shall be not be entitled to refuse to
         transfer its interest in the Land by reason of any previous failure of
         Building Owner to timely deliver such Due Diligence Documents and Due
         Diligence Certificates as required hereunder unless Land Owner notified
         Building Owner of such failure and such failure has not been remedied
         on or prior to the Option Effective Date).

5.       Land Owner and Building Owner shall, in the ninety (90) day period
         succeeding the date of delivery of the JVA pursuant to SECTION 2(C),
         negotiate in good faith the terms of the JVA, subject to the terms of
         this Agreement and EXHIBIT A hereto. Any dispute relating to the terms
         and provisions of the JVA which is not resolved by the end of such
         ninety (90) day period shall be submitted to arbitration for resolution
         pursuant to SECTION 4, below.

6.       On the Option Effective Date, the following shall simultaneously occur

         1.       Land Owner shall convey the Land and all of Land Owner's
                  interest in the Ground Lease to Building Owner by Bargain and
                  Sale Deed with Covenant against Grantor's Acts;

         2.       The JVA shall be executed and delivered by Land Owner and
                  Building Owner Member and Land Owner shall be admitted
                  pursuant thereto as a 50% owner in the Joint Venture in
                  accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the JVA;



                                       4
<Page>

         3.       Land Owner and Building Owner shall prepare, execute and
                  deliver such transfer tax and other forms and documents which
                  are reasonably required to effect the transaction contemplated
                  hereby; and

         4.       Land Owner and Building Owner shall each pay their respective
                  costs and expenses pursuant to SECTION 6 below.

3.       ASSIGNMENT.

         1.       This Agreement shall not be assigned by either party hereto,
                  except that this Agreement shall be assigned by the respective
                  party hereto (and shall be assumed by the party accepting such
                  assignment) in connection with an assignment made in
                  accordance with the terms of the Ground Lease of all of Land
                  Owner's or Building Owner's respective interest in the Land,
                  the Building and the Ground Lease, it being understood that
                  this Agreement and the terms, conditions, covenants,
                  provisions and undertakings herein contained shall at all
                  times be binding solely upon and inure solely to the benefit
                  of Land Owner and Building Owner, and any subsequent Landlord
                  and Tenant under the Ground Lease, except as provided in
                  clause (b) below.

         2.       Notwithstanding anything contained in SECTION 3(A), above, in
                  the event that the interest of Land Owner in the Land or the
                  interest of Building Owner in the Building is, at any time,
                  acquired by the holder of a lien on such interest, whether
                  through foreclosure, deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, power of
                  sale or other such proceedings, or is acquired by any other
                  purchaser at or in connection with such foreclosure or other
                  proceedings, the option set forth in SECTION 2 hereof of the
                  party whose interest is so acquired shall automatically and
                  without notice terminate, and such holder or other purchaser,
                  and its successors or assigns, shall not succeed to the right
                  to exercise such option upon acquiring such interest, it being
                  understood that the party whose interest is not so acquired
                  shall continue to have the right to exercise its option under
                  SECTION 2 hereof, and such holder or other purchaser, and its
                  successors and assigns, shall be bound by the terms,
                  conditions, covenants provisions and undertakings herein
                  contained to be performed or observed by the party whose
                  interest is so acquired.

4.       ARBITRATION; DISPUTES. Any dispute relating to the terms and provisions
         of the JVA shall be resolved by arbitration in the Borough of
         Manhattan, City and State of New York, pursuant to the Commercial
         Arbitration Rules then prevailing for the American Arbitration
         Association, or any successor organization ("AAA") and pursuant to the
         procedure below:

         1.       Within ten (10) Business Days following the giving of a demand
                  for arbitration, Land Owner and Building Owner shall each give
                  notice to the other setting forth the name and address of an
                  arbitrator designated by the party giving such notice.


                                       5
<Page>

                  The two arbitrators shall conduct a hearing and then issue a
                  joint determination within thirty (30) days after the
                  appointment of both arbitrators. If either party fails to give
                  notice of its designation within said ten (10) Business Days,
                  and such failure continues beyond five (5) Business Days after
                  notice from the non-failing party stating in boldface
                  capitalized letters that such failure to designate an
                  arbitrator within such five (5) Business Day period will
                  result in the non-failing party's right to seek the
                  appointment by AAA or a court of a single arbitrator who will
                  resolve the dispute, then the non-failing party may apply to
                  AAA for the designation of a single arbitrator and if AAA
                  fails to designate such single arbitrator within ten (10)
                  Business Days after a request therefor, such non-failing party
                  may apply to the Supreme Court in New York County or to any
                  other court having jurisdiction for the designation of such
                  arbitrator and the determination of such single appointed
                  arbitrator shall control.

         2.       If the two designated arbitrators are unable to agree upon
                  resolution of the dispute within such thirty (30) day period,
                  then the two arbitrators shall designate a third impartial
                  arbitrator. If the two arbitrators shall fail to agree upon
                  the designation of a third arbitrator within five (5) days
                  after the expiration of such thirty (30) day period, then
                  either party may apply to the AAA for the designation of the
                  third arbitrator and if the AAA is unable or refuses to
                  designate such third arbitrator within ten (10) Business Days
                  after application to the AAA for such designation, then either
                  party may apply to the Supreme Court in New York County or to
                  any other court having jurisdiction for the designation of
                  such arbitrator.

         3.       The parties shall then conduct a hearing before all three
                  arbitrators, not to exceed ten (10) days. The dispute shall be
                  resolved by a majority of the three (3) arbitrators within
                  thirty (30) days after termination of the hearing, but if two
                  (2) arbitrators cannot agree, then the third impartial
                  arbitrator's determination shall prevail.

         4.       The determination as specified herein shall be binding upon
                  the parties, and a judgment thereon may be entered in and
                  enforced by any court of competent jurisdiction, provided that
                  any decision rendered in any arbitration held pursuant to this
                  SECTION shall be final and binding upon Land Owner and
                  Building Owner, whether or not a judgment shall be entered in
                  any court.

         5.       All of the arbitrators selected pursuant to this SECTION shall
                  be lawyers having at least ten (10) years current experience
                  in negotiating operating agreements, partnership agreements or
                  joint venture agreements for the ownership, of first-class
                  office space in New York County.

         6.       Each party shall pay the fees and expenses of its own legal
                  counsel, witnesses, experts and consultants, and the costs
                  relating to the submission of its evidence, if any, in
                  connection with any arbitration under this SECTION, including
                  the expenses and fees of any arbitrator selected by it in
                  accordance with the provisions of this


                                       6
<Page>

                  SECTION, and the parties shall share equally all other
                  expenses and fees of any third arbitrator.

         7.       The arbitrators shall be instructed that their determination
                  of any dispute relating to additional JVA terms and provisions
                  not set forth in EXHIBIT A annexed hereto shall be based
                  solely on what is then customarily included in a joint venture
                  agreement for a joint venture owning a first-class office
                  building in Manhattan which is comparable to the Building,
                  between joint venturers with equal interests therein and
                  consistent with the intent of this Agreement. The arbitrators
                  shall be bound by the provisions of this Agreement and shall
                  not add to, subtract from, or otherwise modify this Agreement.

5.       NOTICES; JURISDICTION.

         1.       All notices (collectively, "NOTICES" and individually, a
                  "NOTICE") which are required or desired to be given by either
                  party to the other shall be in writing. All notices by either
                  party to the other shall be sent by nationally recognized
                  overnight carrier to the other party at its address set forth
                  below or personally delivered (with receipt acknowledged) to
                  such address or at such other or additional address as it may
                  from time to time designate in a notice to the other party,
                  but in no event shall a party be required to deliver notices
                  to more than two (2) addressees.

         If to Building Owner:

                  MSDW 745, LLC
                  c/o Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
                  1633 Broadway
                  New York, New York 10019
                  Attention: Principal, Corporate Real Estate and Facilities
                             Management

                  With a copy to:

                  Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
                  1633 Broadway
                  New York, New York 10019
                  Attention: Vice President, Corporate Real Estate and
                             Facilities Management

         If to Land Owner:

                  Rock-Forty-Ninth LLC
                  c/o The Rockefeller Group
                  1221 Avenue of the Americas
                  New York, New York 10020
                  Attention: President


                                       7
<Page>

                  With a copy to:

                  Rock-Forty-Ninth LLC
                  c/o The Rockefeller Group
                  1221 Avenue of the Americas
                  New York, New York 10020
                  Attention: Secretary

         2.       Notices which are served upon Land Owner, Building Owner in
                  the manner aforesaid shall be deemed to have been given or
                  served for all purposes hereunder on the date of actual
                  receipt as evidenced by a receipt therefor, and in the event
                  of a failure to deliver by reason of changed address of which
                  no notice was given or refusal to accept delivery, as of the
                  date of such failure. All notices to Guarantor must be given
                  in accordance with the Guaranty.

         3.       The parties hereby confer exclusive jurisdiction upon the
                  Supreme Court of New York, New York County (or any successor
                  court of similar jurisdiction) with respect to any judicial
                  action or proceeding arising out of this Agreement.

6.       COSTS AND EXPENSES. If Land Owner or Building Owner exercises its
         option provided in SECTION 2 above, the parties shall share equally the
         cost of any transfer and similar taxes, title insurance and a then
         current "ALTA" survey for the Project in connection with the exercise
         of such option, the transfer of the fifty percent (50%) interest in
         Building Owner to Land Owner and the transfer of the Land and all of
         Land Owner's interest in the Ground Lease to Building Owner. Each party
         shall individually bear all of its other costs incurred in connection
         with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the exercise
         of such option, including, without limitation, any costs expended by
         the respective parties in complying with the terms of SECTION 5(A) and
         (5)(B) of EXHIBIT A. Moreover, each party shall bear the cost of its
         own counsel in connection with the preparation and execution of the
         JVA.

7.       NAME OF JOINT VENTURE. If Land Owner or Building Owner exercises its
         option provided in SECTION 2 above, upon the Option Effective Date the
         Joint Venture shall change its name to a name mutually acceptable to
         Land Owner and Building Owner, which name shall reflect that Land Owner
         and Building Owner Member are equal co-venturers in the Joint Venture,
         provided, however, that at the election of either Land Owner or
         Building Owner Member the name of the Joint Venture shall not reflect
         the name of either of Land Owner or Building Owner Member, or in any
         way be more favorable to one Venturer than to the other Venturer.

8.       CONTINUING LEASES. Any Sublease of space in the Building, or any
         modification or extension thereof, which has a term, including any
         renewal options, which extends beyond the Option Effective Date shall
         be subject to the prior consent of Land Owner, which consent shall not
         be unreasonably withheld provided said Sublease is on market terms,
         demises at least one full floor of the Building and the proposed
         subtenant has


                                       8
<Page>

         financial strength reasonably adequate to perform its obligations under
         said Sublease (or reasonable security or guaranties are provided)
         consistent with current practices in the marketplace for Comparable
         Buildings. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Land Owner's rejection of a
         Sublease to a Governmental Authority shall be deemed reasonable. Land
         Owner's consent shall be given or denied within fifteen (15) Business
         Days of its receipt of a term sheet describing the material economic
         terms in reasonable detail and reasonably acceptable evidence of the
         Subtenant's or a guarantor's financial strength (unless reasonable
         security is provided). Provided Land Owner fails to respond in such
         fifteen (15) Business Day period, Building Owner shall have the right
         to deliver a Deemed Approval Notice, and if Land Owner shall fail to
         respond within five (5) Business Days thereafter, such Sublease shall
         be deemed approved. (Any such Sublease approved, or deemed approved, by
         Land Owner pursuant to this SECTION 8 is hereby referred to
         individually, as a "CONTINUING LEASE," and collectively, the
         "CONTINUING LEASES").

9.       DEFAULT. If either party shall default in the performance of its
         obligations under this Agreement, it shall be liable to the other party
         for all damages, losses, liabilities, costs and expenses suffered or
         incurred by the other party by reason of such default, including,
         without limitation, reasonable attorney's fees and disbursements. In
         addition to seeking damages, either party may pursue any other remedy
         that may be available to such party at law or in equity, including
         without limitation the remedy of specific performance.

10.      LEASE OPTIONS.

         1.       Land Owner, Building Owner and Morgan Stanley & Co.
                  Incorporated ("MS") have, simultaneously herewith, entered
                  into an Option to Lease Space (the "MS LEASE OPTION"), whereby
                  MS or its Affiliate has the option to lease space in all or a
                  portion of the Building from the Joint Venture upon the
                  formation thereof, all as more particularly described in the
                  MS Lease Option (any such lease entered into by MS or an
                  Affiliate of MS pursuant to the MS Lease Option being referred
                  to as the "MS LEASE").

         2.       Land Owner, or, at Land Owner's election, an Affiliate of Land
                  Owner, is hereby granted an option ("LAND OWNER'S LEASE
                  OPTION"), which may be exercised only if MS has affirmatively
                  exercised its right to lease space in the Building pursuant to
                  the MS Lease Option, to lease one (1) full floor or two (2)
                  full floors of space available in the Building, all on the
                  terms set forth below:

                  1.       Land Owner's Lease Option may be exercised within
                           ninety (90) days after the Election Withdrawal Date
                           (I.E. June 30, 2029, as such date is defined in, and
                           may be extended pursuant to, the MS Lease Option),
                           time being of the essence with respect thereto.
                           During such period Land Owner may elect to exercise
                           Land Owner's Lease Option by written notice to the
                           Building Owner identifying the space (subject to
                           CLAUSES (ii)(1) and (2) below) and the proposed term
                           of such lease (subject to CLAUSE (ii)(3)


                                       9
<Page>

                           below). Land Owner shall not be deemed to have
                           permanently waived its right to exercise the option
                           contemplated by this SECTION 10(B) unless and until
                           (A) Land Owner fails to timely exercise Land Owner's
                           Lease Option as set forth above and (B) either (x)
                           the Initial Election Notice (as such term is defined
                           in the MS Lease Option) contains in boldface
                           capitalized letters a reminder that "LAND OWNER'S
                           FAILURE TO TIMELY EXERCISE ITS OPTION TO LEASE SPACE
                           PURSUANT TO SECTION 10(B) OF THE JV OPTION AGREEMENT
                           WITHIN NINETY (90) DAYS FOLLOWING THE ELECTION
                           WITHDRAWAL DATE WILL RESULT IN THE WAIVER OF LAND
                           OWNER'S RIGHTS UNDER THAT SECTION" or (y) Building
                           Owner delivers a separate reminder notice to Land
                           Owner at any time after the giving of the Initial
                           Election Notice which contains the language set forth
                           in clause (x) above and Land Owner fails to
                           affirmatively exercise its option under this SECTION
                           10(B) on or before the later of (I) ninety (90) days
                           after the Election Withdrawal Date and (II) if
                           Building Owner delivers the reminder notice pursuant
                           to clause (y) above (as opposed to clause (x)), five
                           (5) Business Days after delivery of that reminder
                           notice.

                  2.       The Land Owner's Lease Option shall be:

                           (1)      for one (1) or two (2) full floors of space
                                    in the Building which floors (if Land Owner
                                    exercises its option with respect to two (2)
                                    floors) shall be contiguous to the extent
                                    available, except as otherwise reasonably
                                    required by Building Owner, subject to
                                    Building Owner's reasonable approval of the
                                    location of such space, it being understood
                                    that if such space consists of two (2)
                                    floors, to the extent available and
                                    practicable, Building Owner Member shall
                                    endeavor to locate such two (2) floors in
                                    the same elevator bank;

                           (2)      subject to the availability of space in the
                                    Building at the time Land Owner exercises
                                    Land Owner's Lease Option (provided that
                                    Building Owner shall be entitled to deem
                                    space to be unavailable if it is vacant or
                                    is reasonably anticipated by Building Owner
                                    to become vacant more than six (6) months
                                    prior to the Option Effective Date); and

                           (3)      for a lease term of between five (5) and
                                    fifteen (15) years, commencing on the Option
                                    Effective Date (but in no event shall such
                                    term extend beyond the term of the MS
                                    Lease), subject to any then existing future
                                    possessory or expansion right of MS, an
                                    Affiliate of MS or any third party.


                                       10
<Page>


                  3.       Building Owner shall send Land Owner a notice within
                           thirty (30) days after the exercise by Land Owner of
                           Land Owner's Lease Option either confirming that the
                           floor(s) selected by Land Owner pursuant to clause
                           (i) above are available for lease by Land Owner and
                           approved by Building Owner or stating that one or
                           both of such floors are not available for lease by
                           Land Owner or not reasonably approved by Building
                           Owner and indicating which floor(s), if any, are
                           available for lease by Land Owner and approved by
                           Building Owner. If Building Owner fails to send such
                           notice within said thirty (30) day period, Land Owner
                           shall be entitled to send a reminder notice to
                           Building Owner containing the same information as is
                           required to be contained in Landlord's notice
                           exercising its Land Owner's Lease Option, with a
                           statement, in bold capitalized letters, that the
                           floor(s) selected by Land Owner shall be deemed
                           approved by Building Owner unless Building Owner
                           notifies Land Owner of its objections within five (5)
                           Business Days. If Building Owner fails to so notify
                           Land Owner of its objections within said five (5)
                           Business Day period, the floor(s) selected by Land
                           Owner shall be deemed to have been approved by
                           Building Owner. In the event that Building Owner
                           notifies Land Owner that one or both of the floor(s)
                           selected by Land Owner are not available or not
                           reasonably approved by Building Owner, Land Owner
                           shall, within ten (10) Business Days after Building
                           Owner so notifies Land Owner of the location of the
                           available floor(s), give a notice to Building Owner
                           stating that it either (x) accepts the floor(s)
                           offered by Building Owner (or if Land Owner exercised
                           its option for two (2) floors and Building Owner
                           identified two (2) floors which were available and
                           approved, Land Owner shall indicate that it accepts
                           both, or if the floors indicated by Building Owner
                           are not contiguous, either of such floors, or if
                           Building Owner has given Land Owner more than one
                           alternative, Land Owner shall indicate which floor(s)
                           it has elected to take), (y) rejects the floor(s)
                           offered by Building Owner and withdraws the exercise
                           of its Land Owner's Lease Option (in which event Land
                           Owner shall have no more rights pursuant to this
                           SECTION 10(B)), or (z) disputes Building Owner's
                           position that one or both of the floors selected by
                           Land Owner is unavailable or that Building Owner has
                           acted reasonably in disapproving Land Owner's
                           indicated floor(s), in which case such dispute shall
                           be resolved in accordance with the provisions of
                           SECTION 10(B)(V) above. If the dispute is arbitrated
                           and Building Owner prevails, Land Owner shall not be
                           entitled to withdraw its exercise of Land Owner's
                           Lease Option and shall be required to lease the space
                           designated by Building Owner.

                  4.       Any lease entered into by Land Owner (or its
                           Affiliate) pursuant to Land Owner's Lease Option
                           shall have a rental equal to 95% of the then fair
                           market rent for the space and shall be upon such
                           other terms and conditions as set forth in the MS
                           Lease Option, except that (x) Land Owner (or its
                           Affiliate) shall only be entitled to those additional
                           services


                                       11
<Page>

                           and rights which, under the MS Lease Option, would
                           have been provided to a tenant which is leasing
                           and/or occupying the amount of space which Land Owner
                           (or its Affiliate) will lease and/or occupy, (y) the
                           level of services and rights granted to Land Owner
                           (or its Affiliate), as tenant, shall at Land Owner's
                           election be less than that required by MS under the
                           MS Lease, and (z) the provisions set forth in SECTION
                           2(A) of the MS Lease Option and the provisions of
                           SECTION 17, SECTION 26 and the last sentence of
                           SECTION 27 of Exhibit A of the MS Lease Option shall
                           not apply to Land Owner (or its Affiliate).

                  5.       Any dispute concerning the terms of the lease with
                           Land Owner (or its Affiliate) which has not been
                           resolved within thirty (30) days after the delivery
                           of Land Owner's notice set forth in SECTION 10(b)(i),
                           above shall be resolved by arbitration pursuant to
                           the terms of SECTION 6 of the MS Lease Option.

                  6.       Though the Land Owner's Lease Option set forth herein
                           shall be self-operative, upon either party's request,
                           Land Owner and Building Owner shall execute and
                           deliver, with respect thereto, an instrument
                           confirming the terms thereof, a recordable memorandum
                           of the same, and any further documents reasonably in
                           furtherance of the terms of this SECTION 10(B).

                  7.       In no event shall the Leasing Agent be entitled to
                           any commission or other fee in connection with space
                           leased by Land Owner or its Affiliate in the Building
                           pursuant to this SECTION 10(B) or otherwise.

                  8.       Fair market rent shall be determined in the same
                           manner as provided in the MS Lease Option. Pending
                           any determination of fair market rent, Land Owner
                           shall pay, as rent, an amount based upon the rent per
                           square foot of rentable area payable under the MS
                           Lease, subject to adjustment in the same manner as
                           provided in the MS Lease Option.

11.      SHARED CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS.

         1.       Building Owner Member shall be entitled to reimbursement for a
                  portion of certain capital improvements made to the Building
                  by Building Owner in accordance with the provisions of this
                  SECTION 11.

         2.       Subject to the terms of this SECTION 11, Land Owner shall
                  reimburse Building Owner Member for fifty percent (50%) of the
                  Reimbursable Amount (as hereinafter defined) for Shared
                  Capital Improvements to the extent paid for by Building Owner
                  prior to the Option Effective Date. Subject to the terms of
                  this SECTION 11, in the case of any Shared Capital
                  Improvements which are commenced prior to the Option Effective
                  Date and not completed prior thereto ("INCOMPLETE SHARED
                  CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS"), the Reimbursable Amount for


                                       12
<Page>

                  such Incomplete Shared Capital Improvements shall mean the
                  amount of costs actually paid by Building Owner to perform the
                  same on or prior to the Option Effective Date and the Joint
                  Venture shall be responsible for the completion of such
                  Incomplete Shared Capital Improvements and the costs incurred
                  by the Joint Venture to do so shall constitute Joint Venture
                  expenses.

3.       The following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:

         1.       "DEPRECIABLE LIFE" shall mean the period (which is not in
                  violation of any Legal Requirements) which is the greater of
                  (i) the period over which said Shared Capital Improvement was
                  or will actually be depreciated on Building Owner's annual tax
                  returns or (ii) the period over which said Shared Capital
                  Improvement was or will actually be depreciated on Building
                  Owner's financial books.

         2.       "SHARED CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT" shall mean any capital
                  improvement, repair or replacement to the Project (i) which
                  has an individual cost exceeding an amount equal to $1,000,000
                  (such amount, as increased pursuant to the further provisions
                  hereof, is the "THRESHOLD AMOUNT"), increased by a fraction,
                  the numerator of which is the CPI on the date of the
                  installation of such Shared Capital Improvement and the
                  denominator of which is the CPI on the date of this Agreement,
                  but in no event shall such Threshold Amount exceed $5,000,000;
                  (ii) the installation of which is commenced within the seven
                  (7) Lease Years prior to the Option Effective Date; and (iii)
                  which is reasonably required to comply with Building Owner's
                  obligations, as Tenant, under SECTION 8.2 and SECTION 11.1 of
                  the Ground Lease.

4.       The cost of any Shared Capital Improvement (other than any Incomplete
         Shared Capital Improvement), subject to Land Owner's right to dispute
         the reasonableness thereof as set forth below, shall be amortized over
         its Depreciable Life from the date of completion of such Shared Capital
         Improvement with interest at the Prime Rate. The portion, if any, of
         the cost of such Shared Capital Improvement (with interest as provided
         above) which has not been amortized pursuant to the preceding sentence
         as of the Option Effective Date as agreed to (or deemed agreed to)
         between Land Owner and Building Owner or as determined by arbitration
         pursuant to SECTION 11(D)(II) below shall be herein referred to as the
         "REIMBURSABLE AMOUNT":

         1.       Building Owner shall provide Land Owner written notice of the
                  proposed Shared Capital Improvement, which notice (the
                  "REIMBURSEMENT NOTICE") may be given before or after the
                  commencement of any Shared Capital Improvement, but no later
                  than the Option Effective Date, and shall include (a) a
                  description of the improvement, (b) preliminary specifications
                  for such improvement, (c) the reason for such improvement,


                                       13
<Page>

                  (d) for informational purposes only, the estimated cost of
                  undertaking the improvement and (e) for informational purposes
                  only, an estimate of the improvement's Depreciable Life.


         2.       Land Owner shall have the right to give a notice to Building
                  Owner within thirty (30) days after its receipt of any
                  Reimbursement Notice objecting to the same only if Land Owner
                  believes in good faith that the improvement described therein
                  does not satisfy the definition of Shared Capital Improvement.
                  Any such notice from Land Owner shall specify in reasonable
                  detail the reasons for Land Owner's objection. If Land Owner
                  fails to give such objection notice within such thirty (30)
                  day period, Building Owner shall have the right to deliver to
                  Land Owner a Deemed Approval Notice, and if Land Owner shall
                  fail to respond within five (5) Business Days thereafter, the
                  improvement described in such Reimbursement Notice and Deemed
                  Approval Notice shall be deemed to be a Shared Capital
                  Improvement. If Land Owner timely gives such objection notice,
                  and the dispute is not resolved within thirty (30) days after
                  the giving of such objection notice, the dispute shall be
                  submitted to arbitration in accordance with the provisions set
                  forth in ARTICLE 33 of the Ground Lease, and the resulting
                  determination shall be binding on the Land Owner and Building
                  Owner.

         3.       Following the completion of the Shared Capital Improvement,
                  other than any Incomplete Shared Capital Improvement, Building
                  Owner shall provide Land Owner with notice (the "COST
                  NOTICE"), which Cost Notice shall include (a) the cost of the
                  improvement, (b) the actual Depreciable Life over which the
                  Shared Capital Improvement is being or will be depreciated on
                  the Building Owner's annual tax returns or on the Building
                  Owner's financial books, and (c) Building Owner's proposed
                  Reimbursable Amount for such Shared Capital Improvement (it
                  being understood that Land Owner cannot object to the
                  Depreciable Life). On the Option Effective Date, Building
                  Owner shall also notify Land Owner in a Cost Notice of the
                  actual cost paid by Building Owner to date for any Incomplete
                  Shared Capital Improvements.

         4.       Land Owner shall have the right to give a notice (the "COST
                  OBJECTION") to Building Owner within thirty (30) days after
                  its receipt of any Cost Notice objecting to the same only if
                  Land Owner believes in good faith that the cost of such
                  improvement as specified in the Cost Notice is more than five
                  percent (5%) in excess of the reasonable cost which should
                  have been reasonably incurred to complete such improvement (or
                  in the case of any Incomplete Shared Capital Improvement, if
                  Land Owner believes in good faith that the costs set forth in
                  the applicable Cost Notice were not actually paid by Building
                  Owner, or that the contracted costs for the Incomplete Shared
                  Capital Improvement (i.e. contracted costs paid to date plus


                                       14
<Page>

                  contracted cost to complete) is more than 5% in excess of the
                  reasonable cost which should have been reasonably contracted
                  therefor) or that Building Owner has made a mathematical
                  mistake in calculating the Reimbursable Amount. Any Cost
                  Objection shall specify in reasonable detail the reasons for
                  Land Owner's objection (including, without limitation, (x)
                  with respect to Shared Capital Improvements other than
                  Incomplete Shared Capital Improvements the amount that Land
                  Owner believes in good faith is the reasonable cost which
                  should have been reasonably incurred to complete such
                  improvement, and (y) with respect to any Incomplete Shared
                  Capital Improvement, the amount that Land Owner believes in
                  good faith was actually paid by Building Owner for such
                  Incomplete Shared Capital Improvement on or prior to the
                  Option Effective Date or, if applicable, the cost that should
                  have been reasonably contracted for such Incomplete Shared
                  Capital Improvement).


         5.       (A) In the case of any Shared Capital Improvement other than
                  any Incomplete Shared Capital Improvements, the difference
                  between the cost of the improvement as specified in the Cost
                  Notice and Land Owner's good faith determination of the
                  reasonable cost of the improvement as set forth in the Cost
                  Objection or (B) in the case of any Incomplete Shared Capital
                  Improvement, the difference between the actual costs paid by
                  Building Owner as specified in the Cost Notice and the amount
                  that Land Owner believes in good faith was actually paid, in
                  either case shall be referred to herein as the "DISPUTED
                  AMOUNT" and any dispute concerning the Disputed Amount which
                  is not resolved within thirty (30) days after the delivery of
                  the Cost Objection shall be submitted to arbitration for
                  resolution pursuant to the provisions of Article 33 of the
                  Ground Lease.

         6.       If Land Owner fails to deliver a Cost Objection within such
                  thirty (30) day period, Building Owner shall have the right to
                  deliver to Land Owner a Deemed Approval Notice, and if Land
                  Owner shall fail to respond within five (5) Business Days
                  thereafter, the Cost Notice shall be deemed approved by Land
                  Owner.

         7.       (A) If Land Owner fails to timely deliver a Cost Objection in
                  accordance with clauses (iv) and (vi) above with respect to a
                  Shared Capital Improvement, then Land Owner shall reimburse
                  Building Owner Member for 50 % of the Reimbursable Amount for
                  such Shared Capital Improvement on the later of (x) the Option
                  Effective Date and (y) ten (10) Business Days after the
                  expiration of the five (5) Business Day Period after a Deemed
                  Approval Notice has been delivered by Building Owner in
                  accordance with clause (vi) above.

                  (B) If Land Owner timely delivers a Cost Objection in
                  accordance with clause (iv) or (vi) above with respect to any
                  Shared Capital Improvement,


                                       15
<Page>

                  then Land Owner shall reimburse Building Owner Member for 50%
                  of the Reimbursable Amounts, less any Disputed Amounts, in
                  respect of such Shared Capital Improvement on the later of (x)
                  the Option Effective Date and (y) ten (10) Business Days after
                  the date the applicable Cost Objection is timely given. If
                  Land Owner timely delivers a Cost Objection with respect to
                  any Shared Capital Improvement and the dispute is not resolved
                  within ten (10) Business Days after the giving of such Cost
                  Objection, either party may submit the dispute to arbitration
                  in accordance with the provisions set forth in ARTICLE 33 of
                  the Ground Lease and the resulting determination shall be
                  binding on Land Owner and Building Owner. Any amounts
                  determined to be payable by the resolved arbitration shall be
                  payable to Building Owner Member on the later of (1) the
                  Option Effective Date or (2) the date which is ten (10)
                  Business Days after the resolution of the arbitration,
                  together with interest thereon at the Prime Rate from the date
                  on which such amount would otherwise have been paid.

                  (C) If Land Owner timely delivers a Cost Objection with
                  respect to any Incomplete Shared Capital Improvement objecting
                  that Land Owner believes in good faith that the contracted
                  costs for such Incomplete Shared Capital Improvement are more
                  than 5% in excess of the reasonable cost which should have
                  been reasonably contracted therefor (which Cost Objection
                  includes the cost that Land Owner believes in good faith
                  should have been reasonably contracted therefor) and such
                  dispute is not resolved within thirty (30) days after the
                  delivery of such Cost Objection, such dispute shall be
                  submitted to arbitration for resolution pursuant to the
                  provisions of ARTICLE 33 of the Ground Lease. If pursuant to
                  such arbitration it is determined that the amount that should
                  have been reasonably contracted for such Incomplete Shared
                  Capital Improvement exceeds the actual contracted costs for
                  such Incomplete Shared Capital Improvement pursuant to
                  Building Owner's contracts therefor entered into prior to the
                  Option Effective Date (the amount of such excess with respect
                  to any such Incomplete Shared Capital Improvement is called a
                  "CONTRACT EXCESS"), upon the completion of such Incomplete
                  Shared Capital Improvement and the payment by the Joint
                  Venture of all costs for such completion, the Land Owner shall
                  be entitled to a credit in an amount equal to 50% of the
                  Contract Excess for such Incomplete Shared Capital
                  Improvement, which credit shall be paid in accordance with
                  SECTION 7 of EXHIBIT A attached hereto.

         5.       Nothing in this SECTION shall be deemed to affect Building
                  Owner's right to perform any improvement, repair or
                  replacement it may desire to perform (subject to the terms of
                  the Ground Lease) without giving any Reimbursement Notice or
                  Cost Notice to Land Owner. Further, if Building Owner does
                  elect to give a Reimbursement Notice or Cost Notice to Land
                  Owner with respect to any such


                                       16
<Page>

                  improvement, repair or replacement and Land Owner timely
                  objects to the same in accordance with this SECTION, nothing
                  in this SECTION shall be deemed to affect Building Owner's
                  right to perform the same without waiting for the resolution
                  of such dispute.

         6.       For informational purposes only, Building Owner shall deliver
                  to Land Owner true copies of the Building's capital budget for
                  each Lease Year in which neither RCMC nor any other Affiliate
                  of Land Owner was the property manager of the Project
                  commencing with the thirty-second (32nd) Lease Year.


12.      MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

         1.       The failure of either party to insist in any one or more cases
                  upon the strict performance of any of the terms, covenants,
                  conditions, provisions or agreements of this Agreement, or to
                  exercise any option herein contained, shall not be construed
                  as a waiver or a relinquishment for the future of any such
                  term, covenant, condition, provision, agreement or option.

         2.       This Agreement may not be changed or terminated orally but
                  only by an agreement in writing signed by the party against
                  whom enforcement of the change or termination is sought. THE
                  GUARANTY PROVIDES IN PART THAT GUARANTOR IS NOT BOUND BY ANY
                  MODIFICATION OR AMENDMENT TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE JVA WHICH
                  INCREASE THE OBLIGATIONS OR DECREASE THE RIGHTS OF BUILDING
                  OWNER OR BUILDING OWNER MEMBER HEREUNDER UNLESS GUARANTOR
                  SHALL HAVE CONSENTED TO SUCH MODIFICATION OR AMENDMENT IN
                  WRITING.

         3.       This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and
                  enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York
                  and without aid of any canon or rule of law requiring
                  construction against the party drawing or causing this
                  Agreement or any provision thereof to be drawn.

         4.       All terms and words used in this Agreement, regardless of the
                  number or gender in which they are used, shall be deemed to
                  include any other number, or any other gender, as the context
                  may require.

         5.       The terms "herein," "hereby," "hereof," "hereunder," and words
                  of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this
                  Agreement as a whole, and not to any particular Article or
                  SECTION, unless expressly so stated.

         6.       The provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed for
                  the benefit of any third party, except as otherwise provided
                  herein.



                                       17
<Page>

         7.       THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY KNOWINGLY WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO A TRIAL
                  BY JURY FOR ANY DISPUTE ARISING IN CONNECTION WITH THIS
                  AGREEMENT.

         8.       The section headings of this Agreement (including EXHIBIT A
                  annexed hereto) are for convenience and reference only, and in
                  no way define, limit or describe the scope or intent of this
                  Agreement, nor in any way affect this Agreement.

         9.       Each of the options provided in SECTIONS 2(A) and 2(B) hereof
                  are being granted in connection with the Ground Lease and
                  therefore the parties believe such options are not subject to
                  the Rule Against Perpetuities (the "RULE"). Nonetheless, the
                  parties agree that to avoid any violation of such Rule, to the
                  extent either option is deemed subject thereto, each such
                  option must be exercised, if at all, on or before the date
                  which is 21 years following the death of the last to die of
                  Governor Hugh Carey and the descendants of John D.
                  Rockefeller, Jr. and any of their respective descendants who
                  are lives in being as of the date of this Agreement.

13.      BANKRUPTCY REMOTE ENTITY. Each of the covenants and agreements
         contained in Sections 1.4, 3.1, 3.2, 3.5, 3.6 and 7.1 of the Limited
         Liability Company Agreement of Land Owner, Paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6 of
         the Amended and Restated Certificate of Formation of Land Owner,
         Articles 2, 6, 7 and 8 of the Certificate of Incorporation of
         Rock-Forty-Ninth, Inc., as amended by the Certificate of Amendment of
         the Certificate of Incorporation of Rock-Forty-Ninth Inc., and Articles
         2, 6, 7 and 8 of the Certificate of Incorporation of Rock-Plaza, Inc.
         (collectively, the "SPE Covenants") are hereby incorporated herein by
         reference as if fully set forth herein for the benefit of Building
         Owner. Each of Land Owner, Rock-Forty-Ninth, Inc. and Rock-Plaza, Inc.
         hereby covenant and agree to comply, at all times, with the SPE
         Covenants contained in their respective organizational documents and
         Rock-Forty-Ninth, Inc. and Rock-Plaza, Inc. further covenant and agree
         to cause Land Owner to comply, at all times, with the SPE Covenants
         contained in the Limited Liability Company Agreement and Amended and
         Restated Certificate of Formation of Land Owner. Land Owner shall not,
         at any time prior to the termination of the Landlord Pledge, without
         Building Owner's prior consent, amend or modify or permit the amendment
         or modification of any of the so-called "separateness covenants"
         contained in the organizational documents of Land Owner and Land
         Owner's respective members or any other provisions contained therein
         which would impair the ability of Building Owner to enforce its rights
         as pledgee under the Landlord Pledge.


                                       18
<Page>


                  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this
Agreement as of the day and year first above written.

                                       LAND OWNER:

                                       ROCK-FORTY-NINTH LLC
                                       By:  Rock-Forty-Ninth, Inc., its Member


                                       By: /s/ Gwen A. Rowden
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Name:  Gwen A. Rowden
                                          Title: Vice President


                                       BUILDING OWNER:

                                       MSDW 745, LLC
                                       By: MS Financing Inc., Member


                                       By: /s/ Owen D. Thomas
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Name:  Owen D. Thomas
                                          Title: Vice President

IF BUILDING OWNER OR LAND OWNER EXERCISES ITS OPTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION
2 OF THIS AGREEMENT, BUILDING OWNER MEMBER AGREES TO CAUSE LAND OWNER TO BE
ADMITTED AS A 50% OWNER IN BUILDING OWNER IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS OF THIS
AGREEMENT, INCLUDING THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THE JVA BY BUILDING OWNER
MEMBER.

BUILDING OWNER MEMBER:

MS FINANCING INC.


By: /s/ Owen D. Thomas
   -----------------------
Name:  Owen D. Thomas
Title: Vice President

THE UNDERSIGNED ENTITIES AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 13
HEREOF:

ROCK-FORTY-NINTH, INC.                             ROCK-PLAZA, INC.


By: /s/ Gwen A. Rowden                             By: /s/ Gwen A. Rowden
   ------------------------                           --------------------------



                                       19
<Page>


                                    EXHIBIT A

                              MATERIAL TERMS OF JVA

14.      DEFINED TERMS; SECTION REFERENCES.

         1.       Terms used in this EXHIBIT A without definition shall have the
                  respective meanings ascribed to them in the Agreement to which
                  this EXHIBIT A is annexed (the "AGREEMENT"), or if not so
                  defined, as such terms are defined in the Ground Lease.

         2.       Any section references contained in this Exhibit A shall refer
                  to other sections in this EXHIBIT A, unless specifically
                  stated otherwise.

15.      CO-VENTURERS. The sole initial parties (individually, a "VENTURER," and
         collectively, the "VENTURERS") of the Joint Venture shall be Land Owner
         and the owner(s) of all of the interests in Building Owner immediately
         prior to the Option Effective Date (the "BUILDING OWNER MEMBER") (or
         their successors and assigns permitted hereunder). No Venturer nor the
         Joint Venture shall be responsible or liable for any indebtedness or
         obligation of the other Venturer incurred either before or after the
         execution of the JVA, except that the Joint Venture shall be bound by
         and be responsible for the following matters (collectively, the
         "CONTINUING PROJECT OBLIGATIONS"):

         1.       any joint responsibilities, liabilities, indebtedness or
                  obligations incurred pursuant to and as limited by the terms
                  of the JVA; and

         2.       obligations arising on or after the Option Effective Date
                  under all of the following: (a) Continuing Leases, brokerage
                  agreements and construction and other contracts relating
                  thereto; (b) the MS Lease, if any; (c) the Ground Lease; (d)
                  any contracts entered into by Building Owner prior to the
                  Option Effective Date so long as the same are terminable upon
                  not more than thirty (30) days' notice without payment of any
                  penalty or otherwise approved in writing by Land Owner; (e)
                  any customary union contracts affecting the Project; (f) any
                  lease entered into by Land Owner or an Affiliate of Land Owner
                  pursuant to the Land Owner's Lease Option; (g) the Permitted
                  Exceptions and other easements, permits, approvals, covenants
                  and restrictions entered into by Building Owner in accordance
                  with the terms of the Ground Lease; (h) construction and other
                  contracts and other obligations relating to Incomplete Shared
                  Capital Improvements; and (i) any other obligation or
                  agreement approved by Land Owner in writing as being a
                  Continuing Project Obligation.


                                      A-1
<Page>


16.      PURPOSE. The purpose of the Joint Venture will be to own, manage,
         lease, mortgage, operate, alter and dispose of the Project and to
         engage in such other activities, and to enter into such agreements, as
         may be necessary or advisable in connection with the promotion or
         conduct of the business of the Joint Venture or the Project. The Joint
         Venture shall not engage in any other business without the consent of
         all of the Venturers.

17.      PRINCIPAL OFFICE. The principal place of business of the Joint Venture
         shall be located at the principal office of the Operating Venturer in
         New York City.

18.      INITIAL CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS; PERCENTAGE INTERESTS; APPORTIONMENTS.

         1.       On the Option Effective Date, Land Owner shall contribute to
                  the Joint Venture its fee interest in the Land and all of its
                  right, title and interest in, to and under the Ground Lease
                  and all rights relating to the Land and the Ground Lease, free
                  and clear of all liens, claims and encumbrances, subject only
                  to the Permitted Exceptions, the Ground Lease and any matters
                  created or otherwise consented to in writing by Building
                  Owner.

         2.       On the Option Effective Date, Building Owner shall cause the
                  Building, the Building Equipment and all rights relating
                  thereto to be free and clear of all liens, claims and
                  encumbrances, subject only to the Continuing Project
                  Obligations and such other matters created or otherwise
                  consented to in writing by Land Owner. The following
                  additional provisions shall apply to the Building:

                  1.       On the Option Effective Date, Building Owner shall
                           cause the Building to be in compliance in all
                           material respects with all Requirements (other than
                           any Requirements then being contested in accordance
                           with the Ground Lease) and otherwise in working
                           order, condition and repair in accordance with the
                           standard set forth in Section 11.1 of the Ground
                           Lease, subject only to reasonable wear and tear. With
                           respect to any non-compliance with the Requirements
                           which is not material as of the Option Effective Date
                           (other than any Requirements then being contested in
                           accordance with the Ground Lease), Building Owner
                           Member shall, promptly after the Option Effective
                           Date, at its sole cost and expense, take whatever
                           action may be reasonably necessary to cure such
                           non-compliance; provided, however, that if such
                           non-compliance would not exist but for the existence
                           of an Incomplete Shared Capital Improvement, the
                           completion of such Incomplete Shared Capital
                           Improvement shall be the responsibility of the Joint
                           Venture and the costs incurred in connection
                           therewith shall be expenses of the Joint Venture
                           other than any fines and penalties arising as a
                           result of the late commencement or delayed
                           prosecution thereof prior to the Option Effective
                           Date which shall be paid by Building Owner Member
                           (unless such fines and penalties resulted from delays
                           caused by force majeure, in which case they shall be
                           borne by the Joint Venture). Building Owner Member
                           shall have the right to continue contesting any such


                                      A-2
<Page>

                           contested Requirements and, if it is determined that
                           the Joint Venture must comply with the same, Building
                           Owner Member shall, at its sole cost and expense,
                           take whatever action may be reasonably necessary to
                           comply therewith. The Joint Venture and Land Owner
                           shall, at Building Owner Member's sole cost and
                           expense, reasonably cooperate with Building Owner
                           Member in connection with this clause. Any tenant
                           improvements constructed by or on behalf of Building
                           Owner, any machinery, apparatus and equipment
                           excluded from "Building Equipment" pursuant to clause
                           (i) of the definition of "Building Equipment" in the
                           Ground Lease, all personal property of Building Owner
                           and all licenses, permits, guaranties, warranties,
                           plans, specifications, and other intangible property
                           of Building Owner which are not required for the
                           operation of the Building or the Building Equipment
                           and all cash on hand and any other claims, awards,
                           proceeds and accounts receivable which are not
                           apportioned in accordance with SECTION 5(B)(II)
                           hereof, any rights or claims of Building Owner
                           against Land Owner or its Affiliates under the
                           Affiliate Contracts or the Ground Lease and any other
                           obligations of Building Owner which do not constitute
                           Continuing Project Obligations shall be transferred
                           and assigned by Building Owner to, and assumed by,
                           Building Owner Member or its Affiliates without any
                           liability to Land Owner or the Joint Venture. The
                           Joint Venture and Land Owner shall execute such
                           instruments as may be reasonably necessary to effect
                           any such transfer.

                  2.       All rents under the Continuing Leases and all
                           expenses of the Land and the Building shall be
                           apportioned between Building Owner Member and the
                           Joint Venture as of 11:59 p.m. of the day immediately
                           preceding the Option Effective Date. Such prorated
                           expenses shall include without limitation the
                           following:

                  (1)      taxes and assessments levied against the Land or the
                           Building;

                  (2)      utility charges, such charges to be apportioned on
                           the Option Effective Date on the basis of the most
                           recent meter reading occurring prior to the Option
                           Effective Date (dated not more than thirty (30) days
                           prior to the Option Effective Date) or, if unmetered,
                           on the basis of a current bill for each such utility;

                  (3)      inventory and supplies;

                  (4)      fees and expenses payable or receivable under any
                           Continuing Project Obligation; and

                  (5)      leasing commissions, costs of tenant improvements,
                           work allowances and base building work performed for
                           a tenant relating to the initial term or renewal term
                           in effect on the Option Effective


                                      A-3
<Page>

                           Date of any Continuing Lease, which have been paid by
                           Building Owner before the Option Effective Date (the
                           "Apportioned Continuing Lease Costs"), each of which
                           shall be amortized over such term on a straight-line
                           basis and apportioned accordingly; provided however,
                           any credit resulting to the Building Owner Member
                           hereunder shall not be paid on the Option Effective
                           Date, but shall be paid in accordance with SECTION 7
                           hereof. With respect to similar items payable after
                           the Option Effective Date, the same shall be paid by
                           the Joint Venture, and amortized and apportioned in
                           the same manner as provided above, and 50% of any
                           resulting credit to the Joint Venture shall be paid
                           to Land Owner in accordance with SECTION 7 hereof.
                           Notwithstanding the foregoing, any leasing
                           commissions, costs of tenant improvements, work
                           allowances and base building work relating to
                           Continuing Leases and payable with respect to a
                           renewal term commencing after the Option Effective
                           Date or with respect to any expansion space added to
                           the premises after the Option Effective Date or
                           arising out of any amendments, modifications or
                           separate agreements entered into after the Option
                           Effective Date shall be expenses of the Joint Venture
                           and not be part of any credit owed to the Joint
                           Venture.

         3.       Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained above:

                  (1)      On the Option Effective Date, any security deposits
                           actually held by Building Owner pursuant to any
                           Continuing Leases (to the extent such security
                           deposits have not been applied against delinquent
                           rents or otherwise as provided in the Continuing
                           Leases) shall be transferred to a new bank account
                           established by the Joint Venture for the purpose of
                           holding tenant security deposits.

                  (2)      Any taxes paid at or prior to the Option Effective
                           Date shall be prorated based upon the amounts
                           actually paid. If taxes due and payable during the
                           year in which the Option Effective Date occurs have
                           not been paid before the Option Effective Date,
                           Building Owner Member shall be responsible for that
                           portion of such taxes which relates to the period
                           before the Option Effective Date and the Joint
                           Venture shall be responsible for the portion of such
                           taxes which relates to the period from and after the
                           Option Effective Date. Any such apportionment made
                           with respect to a tax year for which the tax rate or
                           assessed valuation, or both, have not yet been fixed
                           shall be based upon the tax rate and/or assessed
                           valuation last fixed. To the extent that the actual
                           taxes for the year of the Option Effective Date
                           differ from the amount apportioned as of the Option
                           Effective Date, the parties shall make all necessary
                           adjustments by


                                      A-4
<Page>

                           appropriate payments between themselves within thirty
                           (30) days after such amounts are determined following
                           the Option Effective Date. Assessments shall be
                           equitably apportioned between Building Owner Member
                           and the Joint Venture.

                  (3)      The following provisions shall apply to any unpaid or
                           delinquent rent under any Continuing Leases:

                           (1)      Unpaid and delinquent rent under any
                                    Continuing Leases collected by Building
                                    Owner Member or the Joint Venture after the
                                    Option Effective Date shall be applied as
                                    follows: all rent received by Building Owner
                                    Member or the Joint Venture after the Option
                                    Effective Date shall be applied (A) first,
                                    to the month in which the Option Effective
                                    Date occurs, which rent shall be apportioned
                                    between Building Owner Member and the Joint
                                    Venture as provided above; (B) second, to
                                    Building Owner Member, all rent accruing
                                    within the first thirty (30) days preceding
                                    the Option Effective Date; (C) third, to the
                                    Joint Venture, any delinquent rents for any
                                    period after the month in which the Option
                                    Effective Date occurs; and (D) fourth, to
                                    Building Owner Member, any delinquent rents
                                    for any period prior to the first (30) days
                                    preceding the Option Effective Date.
                                    Building Owner Member shall be entitled to
                                    receive all rents collected by Building
                                    Owner Member or the Joint Venture after the
                                    Option Effective Date which relate to any
                                    leases which expired or were terminated
                                    prior to the Option Effective Date.

                           (2)      The Joint Venture will make a good faith
                                    effort after the Option Effective Date to
                                    collect all rents in the usual course of the
                                    Joint Venture's operation of the Building.
                                    Building Owner may attempt to collect any
                                    delinquent rents owed Building Owner and may
                                    institute any lawsuit or collection
                                    procedures, but may not evict any tenant. In
                                    the event that there shall be any rents or
                                    other charges under any leases which,
                                    although relating to a period prior to the
                                    Option Effective Date, do not become due and
                                    payable until after the Option Effective
                                    Date or are paid prior to the Option
                                    Effective Date but are subject to adjustment
                                    after the Option Effective Date (such as
                                    year end common area expense reimbursements
                                    and the like), then any rents or charges of
                                    such type received by the Joint Venture or
                                    its agents or Building Owner Member or its
                                    agents subsequent to the Option Effective
                                    Date shall, to the extent applicable


                                      A-5
<Page>

                                    to a period extending through the Option
                                    Effective Date, be prorated between Building
                                    Owner Member and the Joint Venture as of the
                                    Option Effective Date and Building Owner
                                    Member's portion thereof shall be remitted
                                    promptly to Building Owner Member by the
                                    Joint Venture and the Joint Venture's
                                    portion thereof, if received by the Building
                                    Owner Member, shall be remitted promptly to
                                    the Joint Venture by the Building Owner
                                    Member.

                           (3)      If Building Owner Member collects any unpaid
                                    or delinquent rent for the Building,
                                    Building Owner Member shall, within fifteen
                                    (15) days after the receipt thereof, deliver
                                    to the Joint Venture any such rent which the
                                    Joint Venture is entitled to hereunder and
                                    if the Joint Venture collects any unpaid or
                                    delinquent rent for the Building, the Joint
                                    Venture shall, within fifteen (15) days
                                    after the receipt thereof, deliver to
                                    Building Owner Member any such rent which
                                    Building Owner Member is entitled to
                                    hereunder.

                           (4)      Building Owner Member may file an appeal of
                                    the real property tax assessment in respect
                                    of the Project, and may take related action
                                    which Building Owner Member deems
                                    appropriate in connection therewith for any
                                    tax year through and including the tax year
                                    in which the Option Effective Date occurs;
                                    provided, however, (x) from and after the
                                    Option Effective Date, the Joint Venture
                                    shall have the right and obligation to
                                    continue diligently to prosecute any contest
                                    commenced by Building Owner for the
                                    reduction of real property taxes or
                                    assessments relating to the Project for the
                                    tax year in which the Option Effective Date
                                    occurs (the "PRESENT TAX CONTEST"), and (y)
                                    subject to Building Owner Member's approval,
                                    not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed
                                    (and which approval shall be deemed given if
                                    Building Owner Member shall not object
                                    thereto within fifteen (15) Business Days
                                    after request therefor by the Joint Venture
                                    and the Joint Venture gives a Deemed
                                    Approval Notice to Building Owner Member
                                    after said fifteen (15) Business Day period,
                                    and Building Owner Member shall not object
                                    thereto within five (5) Business Days after
                                    the giving of said Deemed Approval Notice),
                                    the Joint Venture shall have the right to
                                    settle or discontinue the Present Tax
                                    Contest. If there shall be any refund of the
                                    taxes which are the subject of such pending
                                    Present Tax Contest, such refund, together
                                    with any interest thereon paid by the taxing
                                    authority, shall be paid first, to Building
                                    Owner Member and the Joint Venture in
                                    respect of the expenses incurred by the
                                    Building Owner prior to the Option Effective
                                    Date and by the Joint Venture after the
                                    Option Effective


                                      A-6
<Page>

                                    Date in obtaining such refund, second to
                                    tenants in respect of refunds payable to
                                    tenants of the Building pursuant to their
                                    leases and third, the balance of such refund
                                    shall be apportioned between the Joint
                                    Venture and Building Owner Member. Subject
                                    to the terms set forth below, Building Owner
                                    Member shall own and hold all right, title
                                    and interest in and to any appeal and refund
                                    of real property taxes paid with respect to
                                    any tax year prior to the tax year in which
                                    the Option Effective Date occurs and the
                                    Joint Venture and Land Owner shall execute
                                    such instruments as may be necessary or
                                    reasonably desirable to transfer such right,
                                    title and interest to Building Owner Member.
                                    After the Option Effective Date, Building
                                    Owner Member shall not settle any contest
                                    for the reduction of real property taxes or
                                    assessments relating to the Project for any
                                    tax year prior to the tax year in which the
                                    Option Effective Date occurs without the
                                    Land Owner's prior consent, which consent
                                    shall not be unreasonably withheld or
                                    delayed and shall be deemed granted if,
                                    within fifteen (15) business days after
                                    Building Owner Member's delivery of a notice
                                    requesting such approval, the Land Owner
                                    shall fail to object by notice to Building
                                    Owner Member and such failure shall continue
                                    for an additional five (5) Business Days
                                    after a Deemed Approval Notice is given to
                                    the Land Owner. Any refund attributable to
                                    tax years prior to the tax year in which the
                                    Option Effective Date occurs shall be the
                                    sole property of the Building Owner Member.
                                    Any dispute under this clause (4) shall be
                                    settled by arbitration.

                           (5)      Except as otherwise provided herein, any
                                    revenue or expense amount which cannot be
                                    ascertained with certainty as of the Option
                                    Effective Date shall be prorated on the
                                    basis of the parties' reasonable estimates
                                    of such amount, and shall be the subject of
                                    a final proration within one hundred eighty
                                    (180) days after the Option Effective Date,
                                    or as soon thereafter as the precise amounts
                                    can be ascertained. The Joint Venture shall
                                    promptly notify Building Owner Member when
                                    it becomes aware that any such estimated
                                    amount has been ascertained. Once all
                                    revenue and expense amounts have been
                                    ascertained, the Joint Venture shall
                                    prepare, and certify as correct, a final
                                    proration statement which shall be subject
                                    to Building Owner Member's approval, such
                                    approval not to be unreasonably withheld or
                                    delayed. Upon Building Owner Member's
                                    acceptance and approval of any final
                                    proration statement submitted by the Joint
                                    Venture, such statement shall be
                                    conclusively deemed to be accurate and
                                    final.

                           (6)      If pursuant to the apportionments provided
                                    herein, a net amount is owed by Building
                                    Owner Member, then Building Owner Member


                                      A-7
<Page>

                                    shall pay such amount to the Joint Venture
                                    on the Option Effective Date, or if a net
                                    amount is owed by the Joint Venture, then
                                    Land Owner shall pay to Building Owner
                                    Member 50% of such net amount on the Option
                                    Effective Date. This CLAUSE (6) shall not
                                    apply to credits derived under SECTION
                                    5(B)(II)(5), which shall be paid in
                                    accordance with SECTION 7(A) below.

                           (7)      The JVA shall contain provisions whereby
                                    Building Owner Member shall indemnify the
                                    Joint Venture (and its officers, directors,
                                    members, shareholders, partners, trustees,
                                    beneficiaries, agents and employees) from
                                    and against any and all claims, demands,
                                    causes of action, liabilities, losses,
                                    deficiencies and damages, as well as costs
                                    and expenses (including reasonable
                                    attorneys' fees and court costs), interest
                                    and penalties related thereto, asserted
                                    against, or incurred by any such indemnified
                                    party by reason of or resulting or arising
                                    from (A) the ownership, leasing, maintenance
                                    and/or operation of the Building during
                                    Building Owner's ownership thereof (other
                                    than expenses to be apportioned pursuant to
                                    Section 5(b) above and payment of Land
                                    Owner's share of Shared Capital Improvements
                                    under SECTION 11 of the Agreement and
                                    Continuing Project Obligations), and (B) the
                                    ownership, leasing, maintenance and/or
                                    operation of other properties and any other
                                    activities, operations, businesses, concerns
                                    or other matters engaged in or performed by
                                    Building Owner or for which Building Owner
                                    is or may be deemed to be liable or
                                    responsible, including without limitation
                                    any pledges, security agreements, mortgages
                                    and other obligations and liabilities
                                    arising therefrom. The foregoing is not
                                    intended to affect the rights of Building
                                    Owner or Land Owner or their respective
                                    Affiliates under the Affiliate Contracts. In
                                    no event shall Building Owner Member be
                                    liable to Land Owner for consequential
                                    damages.

                           (8)      The JVA shall contain provisions whereby the
                                    Joint Venture shall indemnify Building Owner
                                    Member (and its respective officers,
                                    directors, members, shareholders, partners,
                                    trustees, beneficiaries, agents and
                                    employees) from and against any and all
                                    claims, demands, causes of action,
                                    liabilities, losses, deficiencies and
                                    damages, as well as costs and expenses
                                    (including reasonable attorneys' fees and
                                    court costs), interest and penalties related
                                    thereto, asserted against, or incurred by
                                    any such indemnified party by reason of or
                                    resulting or arising from the ownership,
                                    leasing, maintenance and/or operation of the
                                    Building during the Joint Venture's period
                                    of ownership thereof, including for
                                    Continuing Project Obligations. The
                                    foregoing is not intended to affect the
                                    rights of Building Owner or Land Owner or
                                    their respective Affiliates under the


                                      A-8
<Page>

                                    Affiliate Contracts. In no event shall the
                                    Joint Venture be liable to Building Owner
                                    Member for consequential damages.

                  4.       The capital account of each Venturer shall be
                           credited with one-half of the Fair Market Value of
                           the Project as of the Option Effective Date.

                  5.       Each Venturer shall, additionally, contribute fifty
                           (50%) percent of the working capital requirements of
                           the Joint Venture as set forth in the First Budget.

         3.       The initial respective interests of the Venturers in and to
                  all real and personal property, moneys and profits of the
                  Joint Venture, and their respective shares of all losses,
                  expenses, obligations and liabilities of the Joint Venture
                  (the "PERCENTAGE INTERESTS") shall be as follows:

                           Land Owner              50%
                           Building Owner Member   50%

19.      ADDITIONAL CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS; ADVANCES TO THE JOINT VENTURE.

         1.       The JVA shall contain provisions for either Venturer to call
                  upon each Venturer to provide funds (the "REQUESTED AMOUNT")
                  within thirty (30) days (unless a shorter time period is
                  reasonably required under the circumstances), if such Venturer
                  reasonably determines that funds are required (i) for the
                  operation of the business of the Joint Venture in accordance
                  with the Budget, (ii) to cure any default under any debt of
                  the Joint Venture or (iii) to pay the costs of improvements in
                  order to comply with any Requirements if the failure to pay
                  the same would have an immediate material adverse affect on
                  the Project. Such advances shall be made as capital
                  contributions to the Joint Venture by both Venturers unless
                  otherwise agreed upon in writing by both Venturers. Each
                  Venturer shall contribute its Percentage Interest of the
                  Requested Amount.

         2.       If a Venturer ( the "WITHHOLDING VENTURER") fails to advance
                  its Percentage Interest of the Requested Amount within the
                  time period provided in SECTION 6(A) above, and such failure
                  continues for five (5) Business Days after a reminder notice
                  is delivered to such Venturer from the other Venturer, the
                  other Venturer (the "NON-WITHHOLDING VENTURER") shall have the
                  right to (i) contribute to the Joint Venture for its own
                  capital account the Percentage Interest of the Requested
                  Amount due from the Withholding Venturer (the "DEFICIENCY"),
                  in which event the respective Percentage Interests shall be
                  recalculated as set forth in SECTION 6(C) below, or (ii) make
                  a loan to the Withholding Venturer (a "DEFICIT LOAN").

         3.       If the Non-Withholding Venturer advances the Deficiency as a
                  capital contribution pursuant to SECTION 6(B)(I) above or
                  converts a Deficit Loan to a


                                      A-9
<Page>

                  capital contribution pursuant to SECTION 6(D) below, then the
                  Percentage Interests of the Venturers shall be recalculated so
                  that (i) the Percentage Interest of the Withholding Venturer
                  shall be reduced by subtracting therefrom the product of (A)
                  the Withholding Venturer's then Percentage Interest in the
                  Joint Venture, multiplied by (B) a fraction, the numerator of
                  which shall be 1.25 times the Deficiency and the denominator
                  of which shall be the sum of all capital contributions
                  theretofore made by such Withholding Venturer plus the
                  Withholding Venturer's Percentage Interest of such Requested
                  Amount, and (ii) the Percentage Interest of the
                  Non-Withholding Venturer shall be increased by the same
                  amount.

         4.       Deficit Loans shall bear interest at the Prime Rate plus four
                  percent (4%) per annum and, at the option of the
                  Non-Withholding Venturer, shall be converted to a capital
                  contribution with the subsequent recalculation of Percentage
                  Interest of the Venturers as provided in SECTION 6(C) above.
                  Any interest due in any fiscal year on any Deficit Loan which
                  is not paid shall be added to the principal amount of said
                  Loan at the end of such fiscal year. All Deficit Loans shall
                  automatically become due and payable upon the transfer by the
                  Withholding Venturer or the Non-Withholding Venturer of its
                  interest in the Joint Venture. All distributions to any
                  Withholding Venturer shall be paid to the Non-Withholding
                  Venturer first towards payment of interest, then principal
                  under any Deficit Loan, until the same is paid in full.

20.      DISTRIBUTIONS; PROFITS AND LOSSES.

         1.       The Joint Venture shall distribute to the Venturers quarterly
                  within thirty (30) days after the close of each fiscal
                  quarter, an amount equal to the Joint Venture's net cash flow
                  (I.E., cash receipts less cash expenses) as of the end of such
                  fiscal quarter, subject to reserves set forth in the Budget.
                  Net cash flow distributions shall be distributed to the
                  Venturers in accordance with their respective Percentage
                  Interests except that (i) to the extent there is a Building
                  Owner Member credit pursuant to SECTION 5(B)(II)(5) above,
                  prior to either Venturer receiving any distributions which it
                  would otherwise be entitled to receive under this SECTION 7,
                  such distributions shall first be paid to Building Owner
                  Member until such time as 100% of such credit has been paid in
                  full to Building Owner Member, (ii) to the extent there is a
                  Joint Venture credit pursuant to SECTION 5(b)(ii)(5) as a
                  result of payments with respect to Continuing Leases made
                  after the Option Effective Date, prior to Building Owner
                  Member receiving any distributions which it would otherwise be
                  entitled to receive under this SECTION 7, such distributions
                  otherwise payable to Building Owner Member hereunder shall
                  first be paid to Land Owner until such time as 50% of such
                  credit has been paid in full to Land Owner and (iii) to the
                  extent Land Owner is entitled to a credit pursuant to Section
                  11(d)(vii)(C) of the Agreement as a result of any Contract
                  Excess with respect to any Incomplete Shared Capital
                  Improvement, prior to Building Owner Member receiving any
                  distributions which it would otherwise be


                                      A-10
<Page>

                  entitled to receive under this SECTION 7, such distributions
                  shall first be paid to Land Owner until such time as such
                  credit has been paid in full. Net proceeds resulting from
                  sales, financings, Joint Venture liquidation and other
                  extraordinary events shall be distributed to the Venturers in
                  accordance with their respective Percentage Interests, except
                  that (i) to the extent there is a Building Owner Member credit
                  pursuant to SECTION 5(B)(II)(5), prior to either Venturer
                  receiving any distributions which it would otherwise be
                  entitled to receive under this SECTION 7, such distributions
                  shall first be paid to Building Owner Member until such time
                  as 100% of such credit has been paid in full to Building Owner
                  Member, (ii) to the extent there is a Joint Venture credit
                  pursuant to SECTION 5(B)(II)(5) hereof as a result of payments
                  with respect to Continuing Leases made after the Option
                  Effective Date, prior to Building Owner Member receiving any
                  distributions which it would otherwise be entitled to receive
                  under this SECTION 7, such distributions otherwise payable to
                  Building Owner Member hereunder shall first be paid to Land
                  Owner until such time as such 50% of such credit has been paid
                  in full to Land Owner and (iii) to the extent Land Owner is
                  entitled to a credit pursuant to SECTION 11(D)(VII)(C) of the
                  Agreement as a result of any Contract Excess with respect to
                  any Incomplete Shared Capital Improvement, prior to Building
                  Owner Member receiving any distributions which it would
                  otherwise be entitled to receive under this SECTION 7, such
                  distributions shall first be paid to Land Owner until such
                  time as such credit has been paid in full.

         2.       Profits and losses shall be allocated to the Venturers in
                  accordance with their respective Percentage Interests.

21.      CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT.

         1.       The Joint Venture shall be operated and governed collectively
                  by the Venturers, as set forth in this SECTION 8. Actions by
                  the Joint Venture which constitute Major Decisions shall
                  require the affirmative votes of the Venturer or Venturers
                  holding at least fifty-five (55%) percent of the Percentage
                  Interests in the Joint Venture (the "CONTROLLING BLOCK").

         2.       Land Owner shall be responsible for the day to day operation
                  and ordinary and usual business and affairs of the Joint
                  Venture which do not constitute Major Decisions; provided
                  however, if either (x) Land Owner shall become a Defaulting
                  Venturer pursuant to SECTION 20(B) below and Building Owner
                  Member is not then also a Defaulting Venturer or (y) the RCMC
                  Management Agreement shall have been terminated by reason of
                  the manager's default thereunder, then in either of those
                  cases, Building Owner Member shall have the right to elect to
                  have such responsibility (the actual Venturer having such day
                  to day responsibilities being referred to as the "OPERATING
                  VENTURER"). Subject to the approval by the Controlling Block
                  and subject to the following sentence, the Operating Venturer


                                      A-11
<Page>

                  shall have the right to hire a manager to perform property
                  management services with respect to the Project. Provided the
                  conditions set forth below have been satisfied, RCMC or its
                  Affiliate shall be the managing agent for the Joint Venture
                  pursuant to a management agreement on fair market financial
                  terms and substantially incorporating the non-monetary terms
                  set forth in the Management Agreement dated as of the date of
                  this Agreement between Building Owner and RCMC (the "RCMC
                  MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT") and otherwise reasonably acceptable to
                  Building Owner Member (and such Management Agreement may be
                  terminated if, at any time, such conditions do not continue to
                  be satisfied):

                  1.       Rock-Forty-Ninth LLC or its Wholly-Owned Affiliate
                           maintains at least a twenty-five percent (25%)
                           interest in the Joint Venture;


                  2.       RCMC (or such managing Affiliate) is a Wholly-Owned
                           Affiliate of RGI and (A) 25% or more of the
                           beneficial ownership in RGI is not directly or
                           indirectly owned by a single Competitor of Building
                           Owner Member and (B) 37.5% or more of the beneficial
                           ownership in RGI is not directly or indirectly owned
                           by one or more Competitors of Building Owner Member
                           who, directly or through their Affiliates, are in the
                           same primary line of business (and that line of
                           business is in competition with a primary line of
                           business of Building Owner Member or an Affiliate of
                           Building Owner Member), whether or not such
                           Competitors are Affiliated with each other and (C)
                           RGI is not directly or indirectly controlled by any
                           single Competitor of Building Owner Member or two or
                           more Competitors of the Building Owner Member acting
                           in concert with each other. In the event the
                           conditions set forth in this clause (ii) are
                           satisfied, but a Competitor of Building Owner Member
                           owns a direct or indirect interest in RGI (which does
                           not rise to the levels specified in CLAUSES (A)
                           through (C), above), RGI and RCMC (or such managing
                           Affiliate) shall provide an agreement reasonably
                           satisfactory to Building Owner Member in which RGI
                           and RCMC (or such managing Affiliate) agree in
                           writing not to disclose any information regarding the
                           business of the Building Owner Member or any of its
                           Affiliates (as opposed to the financial or physical
                           operation of the Project) to such Competitor or
                           Affiliates of such Competitor; and

                  3.       the RCMC Management Agreement has not been previously
                           terminated by reason of RCMC's default thereunder.

                           The direct or indirect beneficial ownership interests
                           in RGI owned or controlled by any Competitor of
                           Building Owner Member shall be aggregated for all
                           purposes of clause (ii) above (including any
                           "control" test).

         3.       The following Joint Venture Decisions ("MAJOR DECISIONS")
                  shall be made only upon the approval by the Controlling Block:



                                      A-12
<Page>

         1.       The sale or lease of all or substantially all of the Project.

         2.       The financing or refinancing of the Project, or any portion
                  thereof, provided that Morgan Stanley Dean Witter ("MSDW") and
                  its Affiliates shall have a right of first offer with respect
                  to the same and, in such event, so long as MSDW and any
                  Affiliate of MSDW who is generally in the financing business
                  have at least a 25% interest in the Joint Venture and the
                  Joint Venture elects to retain an agent to obtain such
                  financing, MSDW or its Affiliate will be retained by the Joint
                  Venture at market rates as the exclusive agent to obtain any
                  such financing.

         3.       The acquisition of real property or development rights.

         4.       Office leases of at least one (1) full floor of rentable
                  square feet in the Project and any modification or termination
                  thereof.

         5.       All other leases, licenses and other use and occupancy
                  agreements for a term, including extensions, exceeding five
                  (5) years.

         6.       All retail and signage leases.

         7.       Annual leasing guidelines.

         8.       Any lease, license or other use and occupancy agreement which
                  is inconsistent with leasing guidelines approved by all
                  Venturers on an annual basis or other than substantially in
                  the form of the approved lease form.

         9.       The Budget.

         10.      Changes in tax treatment of the Joint Venture.

         11.      The entering into of any agreement between the Joint Venture
                  and a Venturer or an Affiliate of a Venturer, other than the
                  agreements entered into pursuant to SECTION 8(B), SECTION
                  8(C)(II), and SECTION 18 hereof.

         12.      The entering into any agreement by the Joint Venture which has
                  a term exceeding one year (other than leases which do not
                  require the approval of the Controlling Block as set forth
                  herein) unless such agreement is terminable without penalty
                  upon not more than thirty (30) days' notice.

         13.      Expenditure of any amounts exceeding (a) 3% for any line items
                  in the Budget or (b) 1% of the total Budget in the aggregate
                  with respect to expenditures for any line items in the Budget
                  and any expenditures for any items not included in the Budget.



                                      A-13
<Page>

         14.      The dissolution or voluntary bankruptcy of the Joint Venture.

         15.      The initiation or settlement of litigation (other than actions
                  relating to leases for which approval of the Controlling Block
                  is not required) which involve individual claims exceeding
                  $100,000 (or such higher minimum amount which is then
                  customary).

         16.      Redesign, alteration, improvement or reconstruction of the
                  Building to the extent not approved in the Budget or permitted
                  under clause (xiii) above.

         17.      The demolition or abandonment of any portion of the Project
                  (unless set forth in the Budget or in connection with approved
                  tenant improvements under leases permitted hereunder).

         18.      Except as provided in SECTION 10 below, the admission of new
                  Venturers.

         19.      The appointment of a manager, the services to be performed by
                  such manager and the terms of the management agreement other
                  than pursuant to the RCMC Management Agreement pursuant to
                  SECTION 8(B) above and other than the replacement of RCMC by
                  reason of default by RCMC and resulting termination of the
                  RCMC Management Agreement.

         20.      Granting of any easement or encumbrance affecting the Project.

         21.      Casualty settlements in excess of $100,000.

         22.      Condemnation settlements.

         23.      Determination of reserves during the term of the Joint Venture
                  or upon dissolution.

         24.      All, except de minimis, environmental matters.

         25.      Form of lease.

         26.      The appointment of a leasing agent, the services to be
                  performed by such leasing agent and the terms of the leasing
                  agency agreement, other than pursuant to the RCMC Leasing
                  Agreement and other than by reason of the default and
                  resulting termination of the RCMC Leasing Agreement.

         27.      The amounts and types of insurance.

         Any Venturer (the "PROPOSING VENTURER") shall have the right to propose
         that action be taken regarding a Major Decision. The other Venturer
         (the


                                      A-14
<Page>

         "RESPONDING VENTURER") shall approve or deny any Major Decision within
         thirty (30) days after request in writing for approval from the
         Proposing Venturer. If approval is not granted by the Responding
         Venturer within such thirty (30) day period, the Responding Venturer
         shall be deemed to have denied its approval of such Major Decision. If
         the Venturers do not jointly approve any Major Decision, then neither
         the Joint Venture nor any Venturer individually shall have the right to
         take any action with respect to such Major Decision and, provided that
         the Proposing Venturer first delivers to the Responding Venturer a
         Deemed Approval Notice and the Responding Venturer fails to deliver a
         notice to the Proposing Venturer that it consents to the action
         proposed by the Proposing Venturer set forth in the Proposing
         Venturer's initial notice within five (5) Business Days following the
         delivery of the foregoing Deemed Approval Notice, each Venturer shall
         have the right to exercise the buy-sell option described below. In the
         event either Venturer so elects, the buy-sell mechanism shall be the
         sole remedy of such Venturer with respect to such Major Decision.
         Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if the
         Responding Venturer exercises its buy-sell option as provided below,
         the Proposing Venturer shall be entitled to withdraw its proposal
         regarding the Major Decision that gave rise to the Responding
         Venturer's right to exercise the buy-sell option by giving written
         notice to the Responding Venturer of such withdrawal within five (5)
         Business Days after the Proposing Venturer's receipt of the Buy-Sell
         Offering Notice (as hereinafter defined), time of the essence. If the
         Proposing Venturer exercises its buy-sell option as provided below, the
         Responding Venturer shall be entitled to thereafter approve the Major
         Decision that gave rise to the Proposing Venturer's right to exercise
         the buy-sell option by giving written notice to the Proposing Venturer
         of such approval within five (5) Business Days after the Responding
         Venturer's receipt of the Buy-Sell Offering Notice, time of the
         essence. If the Proposing Venturer withdraws its proposal or the
         Responding Venturer approves the Major Decision, each in the manner
         provided above, the Responding Venturer's or the Proposing Venturer's,
         as the case may be, exercise of the buy-sell option relating thereto
         shall be void and of no force and effect, and the Venturers shall be
         restored to their respective positions prior to the making of the
         proposal by the Proposing Venturer with respect to the Major Decision.
         Notwithstanding anything contained to the contrary above, if a single
         Venturer constitutes the Controlling Block such Controlling Block
         Venturer shall have the sole right to make all Major Decisions and no
         other Venturer shall have the right to be a Proposing Venturer.

4.       The Joint Venture shall insure the Project through a reputable insurer
         or insurers licensed to do business in the State of New York and having
         a credit rating of not less than A-/X (or the then equivalent by Best's
         or its successor).

5.       Each Venturer shall have the right to reject the other Venturer's
         customarily retained outside accountants or attorneys as serving as the
         accountants or attorneys for the Joint Venture.



                                      A-15
<Page>

6.       So long as an Affiliate of MSDW is a Venturer having at least a 50%
         Percentage Interest in the Joint Venture and is not a Defaulting
         Venturer, Building Owner Member (or such Affiliate) shall have the
         right to designate a bank or banks which shall maintain the Joint
         Venture accounts, provided in any event said bank or banks shall (i)
         not be an Affiliate of Building Owner Member (or such Affiliate), (ii)
         be based in New York City and (iii) have reasonably appropriate
         capital.

7.       The management agreement shall contain provisions whereby RCMC (or any
         other property manager for the Joint Venture) shall, at least three (3)
         months prior to each calendar year (including the calendar year in
         which the Option Effective Date occurs), establish operating and
         capital budgets for the Project for the Joint Venture's approval. Each
         of the budgets approved by the Joint Venture in accordance with the
         terms hereof shall be referred to as a "BUDGET." The first such budgets
         for the calendar year 2032 shall be referred to as the "FIRST BUDGET".
         The following provisions shall apply to the Budgets:

         1.       If the First Budget is not timely established, until such time
                  as the First Budget is established, the Project shall be
                  operated in accordance with a budget consisting of (i) all
                  amounts for non-discretionary items such as real estate taxes,
                  Building employees and any indebtedness of the Joint Venture
                  and (ii) 102% of all other amounts included in Building
                  Owner's budget for the prior year, except that there shall be
                  no capital items other than continuing capital projects
                  approved or deemed approved by both Venturers, any capital
                  projects constituting Continuing Project Obligations and any
                  Incomplete Shared Capital Improvements.

         2.       If any year's Budget (subsequent to the First Budget) is not
                  timely established, until such time as the new Budget is
                  established, the Project shall be operated in accordance with
                  a budget consisting of (i) all amounts for non-discretionary
                  items and (ii) 102% of all other amounts included in the prior
                  year's Budget, except that there shall be no capital items
                  other than continuing capital projects approved in a prior
                  Budget.

         3.       Each operating budget shall include a detailed breakdown of
                  all operating costs and each capital budget shall include a
                  detailed breakdown of capital improvements, required reserves,
                  projected requirements for additional capital contributions
                  and tenant improvements.

         4.       Each Venturer shall approve or disapprove a proposed budget
                  within thirty (30) days after submission of the same to such
                  Venturer by the managing agent. If any Venturer shall not
                  respond within such thirty (30) day period, its approval shall
                  be deemed denied.



                                      A-16
<Page>

         5.       The Operating Venturer shall use reasonable efforts to cause
                  the Project to be operated in accordance with the Budget. The
                  Operating Venturer shall receive no compensation for the
                  performance of its duties under the JVA.

         8.       All Venturers shall receive copies of all notices, reports and
                  other items delivered under any management and leasing
                  agreements, as well as copies of all tax returns.

22.      DURATION.The Joint Venture shall continue until the earliest to occur
         of (i) December 31, 2100, (ii) the agreement of the Venturers to
         terminate, or (iii) the date when termination is otherwise provided by
         law or by the JVA.

23.      TRANSFER OF INTERESTS.

         1.       Except as set forth in this SECTION 10, no Venturer (nor any
                  direct or indirect parent of any Venturer) shall Transfer any
                  interest in the Joint Venture, directly or indirectly,
                  voluntarily or involuntarily without the consent of the other
                  Venturer which may be withheld in each Venturer's respective
                  absolute discretion.

         2.       No Venturer shall have the right to Transfer less than all of
                  its direct interest in the Joint Venture, nor shall any of its
                  Single-Asset Holding Companies (as hereinafter defined) have
                  the right to transfer less than all of its indirect interest
                  in the Joint Venture (a "Prohibited Transfer"). If either
                  Venturer wishes to Transfer all of its direct interest in the
                  Joint Venture or in any of its Single Asset Holding Companies
                  other than in connection with a Permitted Transfer (a "Direct
                  Transfer"), the following right of first offer provisions
                  shall apply:

                  1.       The offering Venturer (the "OFFEROR") shall give
                           notice (a "SALE NOTICE") to the other Venturer (the
                           "OFFEREE") of its desire so to do, which Sale Notice
                           shall state the price, measured in dollars and
                           payable solely in cash, for which it intends to sell
                           its direct interest in the Joint Venture (the "OFFER
                           PRICE"). The Offer Price shall not include the
                           amounts required to be paid pursuant to SECTION
                           10(B)(II)(2) below. The Offeree shall, within thirty
                           (30) days after receipt of such Sale Notice, notify
                           the Offeror by written notice (the "PURCHASE NOTICE")
                           whether or not the Offeree will purchase the interest
                           at the Offer Price, payable in cash, on a closing
                           date not less than sixty (60) days after the date of
                           the Purchase Notice. If the Offeree does not respond
                           within said thirty (30) day period, time being of the
                           essence with respect thereto, the Offeree shall be
                           deemed to have declined to purchase the interest.

                  2.       If the Offeree elects to purchase the interest, the
                           notices given by the Offeror and the Offeree pursuant
                           to paragraph (i) above shall constitute a binding
                           agreement of purchase and sale between the Offeror
                           and the Offeree. Concurrently with the delivery of
                           the Purchase Notice, the


                                      A-17
<Page>

                           Offeree shall deposit into an escrow account with the
                           Offeror's attorney, a sum equal to ten percent (10%)
                           of the Offer Price (the "DEPOSIT") as security for
                           the purchase, which deposit shall be paid to the
                           Offeror at the closing of such purchase as part of
                           the purchase price. Any interest on the Deposit shall
                           be credited to the Offeree unless the Offeree
                           defaults, in which event the interest shall go to the
                           Offeror. Whichever entity receives the interest shall
                           pay all income taxes thereon. On a date and at a
                           place in New York, New York specified by the Offeror,
                           within the time parameters specified above:

                           (1)      the Offeror shall deliver to the Offeree a
                                    duly executed and acknowledged instrument of
                                    assignment conveying the interest of Offeror
                                    to the Offeree or its designee, free and
                                    clear of all liens and encumbrances, which
                                    instrument shall contain surviving
                                    representations concerning the absence of
                                    such liens and encumbrances and that the
                                    Offeror has not taken any action on behalf
                                    of the Joint Venture in violation of the JVA
                                    and shall contain a provision indemnifying
                                    and holding the Offeree harmless from any
                                    loss, cost or expense (including reasonable
                                    attorneys' fees) it may incur by reason of
                                    any breach of any such representations.
                                    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
                                    contained in SECTION 17 hereof, Offeree
                                    shall have the right to look to Offeror and
                                    the direct and indirect owners of Offeror
                                    for any breach of such representations, but
                                    only to the extent of the proceeds of such
                                    sale;

                           (2)      the Offeror shall pay all transfer, stamp,
                                    gains or similar taxes due in connection
                                    with the conveyance of its interest;

                           (3)      the Offeree shall pay the Offer Price (less
                                    the Deposit and as adjusted by the credits
                                    and apportionments herein set forth) in
                                    cash;

                           (4)      net cash flow to the date of closing shall
                                    be distributed in accordance with the
                                    provisions of the JVA, the benefit of which
                                    provisions shall survive any closing
                                    pursuant hereto for purposes of making or
                                    correcting any customary closing
                                    adjustments; and

                           (5)      the Venturers shall execute all amendments
                                    to fictitious name or similar certificates
                                    necessary to reflect the withdrawal of the
                                    Offeror from the Joint Venture, the
                                    admission of any new Venturer to the Joint
                                    Venture and, if applicable, the termination
                                    of the Joint Venture.



                                      A-18
<Page>

                  3.       If the Offeree fails to close the purchase and sale
                           contemplated hereby by reason of its default after a
                           binding agreement of purchase and sale has been
                           formed under paragraph (i) above, then the Offeror
                           may (A) retain the Deposit and all interest accrued
                           thereon as liquidated damages and/or (B) exercise the
                           buy-sell option pursuant to SECTION 11 below.
                           Notwithstanding the remedies afforded the Offeror in
                           the immediately preceding clauses (A) and (B) above,
                           if the Offeree fails to close the purchase and sale
                           by reason of its default after a binding agreement of
                           purchase and sale has been formed under paragraph (i)
                           above, Offeror shall have the right to effect a
                           Transfer to any Qualified Third Party (including a
                           Competitor of the Offeree) within the twenty-four
                           (24) month period following the date of Offeree's
                           default without complying with, or being bound by any
                           of the terms, conditions or restrictions of this
                           SECTION 10.

                  4.       If the Offeror fails to close the purchase and sale
                           contemplated hereby by reason of its default after a
                           binding agreement of purchase and sale has been
                           formed under paragraph (i) above, then the Offeree
                           (A) shall be entitled to a return of the Deposit,
                           together with all interest accrued thereon and (B)
                           may (I) seek specific performance or otherwise pursue
                           its remedies at law or in equity with respect to the
                           binding agreement of purchase and sale formed
                           pursuant to such paragraph (i) and/or (II) exercise
                           the buy-sell option pursuant to SECTION 11 below.

                  5.       In the event that the Offeree does not timely deliver
                           a Purchase Notice, then, subject to the terms of
                           SECTION 10(C) below, the Offeror may effect the
                           proposed transfer to a "Qualified Third Party" within
                           twelve (12) months after the expiration of the thirty
                           (30) day period following the delivery of the Sale
                           Notice, for consideration in cash or cash equivalent
                           and on other economic terms having a present cash
                           value of not less than ninety-five (95%) of the Offer
                           Price.

                  6.       A "QUALIFIED THIRD PARTY" shall mean a Person not an
                           Affiliate of either Venturer which is a reputable
                           person of good character and business dealings.
                           Within thirty (30) days after any Venturer notifies
                           the other Venturer of the name and other reasonable
                           information concerning the nature of the business and
                           ownership of any proposed transferee (or, if such
                           other Venturer reasonably requests additional
                           information regarding such proposed transferee within
                           such thirty (30) day period, thirty (30) days after
                           such additional information is delivered to such
                           other Venturer), such other Venturer shall confirm
                           whether or not such proposed transferee constitutes a
                           Qualified Third Party. If such other Venturer fails
                           to respond within such thirty (30) day period, such
                           proposed transferee shall be deemed to constitute a
                           Qualified Third Party. Any dispute regarding any
                           Qualified Third Party will be subject to arbitration
                           and, if


                                      A-19
<Page>

                           any party elects at any time after a proposed
                           Qualified Third Party has been identified, the
                           arbitration procedure set forth in SECTION 13.18 of
                           the Ground Lease will be put in place to resolve any
                           such dispute.

                  7.       If a Qualified Third Party transfer pursuant to this
                           SECTION 10(B) is not consummated within such twelve
                           (12) month period or if the Offeror desires to effect
                           such a transfer for consideration in cash or cash
                           equivalent and on other economic terms having a
                           present cash value of less than ninety-five (95%) of
                           the Offer Price, the Offeror must once again comply
                           with these right of first offer provisions.

         3.       Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, if
                  Offeree has waived or deemed to have waived its rights to
                  purchase Offeror's interest in the Joint Venture in accordance
                  with the terms of SECTION 10(B) set forth above, Offeror shall
                  still have no right to effect a Direct Transfer to a
                  Competitor of Offeree unless and until it has complied with
                  the provisions set forth below:

                  1.       Offeror shall provide written notice to Offeree that
                           it is in serious good faith negotiations to effect
                           the Transfer of its direct interest in the Joint
                           Venture to a Competitor of Offeree, and such written
                           notice (the "COMPETITOR SALE NOTICE") shall include a
                           certification by Offeror as to (a) the name of the
                           proposed transferee and (b) the basic terms of the
                           transaction, and that such basic terms are
                           substantially agreed upon in principle by Offeror and
                           such Competitor. All information contained in the
                           Competitor Sale Notice, to the extent such
                           information is not generally available in the
                           marketplace, shall be kept in strict confidence by
                           Offeree.

                  2.       Offeree shall have ten (10) Business Days after its
                           receipt of the Competitor Sale Notice to elect by
                           notice to Offeror (the "COMPETITOR SALE RESPONSE")
                           whether or not it elects to purchase Offeror's
                           interest upon the terms set forth in the Competitor
                           Sale Notice. Concurrently with the delivery of a
                           Competitor Sale Response in which Offeree elects to
                           purchase Offeror's interest upon the terms set forth
                           in the Competitor Sale Notice, Offeree shall deposit
                           into an escrow account with the Offeror's attorney, a
                           sum equal to ten percent (10%) of the purchase price
                           set forth in the Competitor Sale Notice as security
                           for the purchase, which deposit shall be paid to the
                           Offeror at the closing of such purchase as part of
                           the purchase price. Any interest on the deposit shall
                           be credited to the Offeree unless the Offeree
                           defaults, in which event interest shall go to the
                           Offeror. Whichever entity receives the interest shall
                           pay all income taxes thereon. If Offeree does not
                           deliver the Competitor Sale Response within such ten
                           (10) Business Day period electing to so purchase
                           Offeror's interest and upon the expiration of such
                           ten (10) Business Day period, Offeror delivers a
                           Deemed Approval Notice to Offeree and Offeree fails
                           to deliver such Competitor Sale Response within three
                           (3) Business Days after receipt of


                                      A-20
<Page>

                           such Deemed Approval Notice, Offeree shall be deemed
                           to have waived its rights hereunder with respect to a
                           sale of the Offeror's interest on the terms and to
                           the Competitor set forth in the Competitor Sale
                           Notice, and Offeror may consummate a sale to the
                           third party Competitor of Offeree set forth in the
                           Competitor Sale Notice in accordance with SECTION
                           10(B)(V) within twelve (12) months of the giving of
                           the Competitor Sale Notice (but in any event the
                           ultimate cash or cash equivalent consideration shall
                           be not less than ninety-five (95%) of that stated in
                           the Competitor Sale Notice ).

                  3.       If Offeree affirmatively elects to purchase Offeror's
                           interest in the Competitor Sale Response, the
                           Competitor Sale Notice and the Competitor Sale
                           Response shall, taken together, constitute a binding
                           agreement for the purchase and sale of Offeror's
                           interest, and the terms of SECTION 10(B)(II), (III)
                           AND (IV) shall apply, except that for purposes of
                           this SECTION 10(C), (1) the term Competitor Sale
                           Notice shall be substituted for the term Sale Notice;
                           (2) the term Competitor Sale Response shall be
                           substituted for the term Purchase Notice and (3) the
                           Offer Price shall be deemed to be the price which the
                           Competitor offered to pay for Offeror's interest in
                           the Joint Venture as set forth in the Competitor Sale
                           Notice.


         4.       Each Venturer and its Affiliates shall have the right to
                  effect any Transfer which does not constitute (x) a Prohibited
                  Transfer or (y) a Restricted Transfer (as defined below) the
                  following Transfers without the consent of the other Venturer,
                  including the following Transfers: (a) a Transfer to a
                  Wholly-Owned Affiliate of either Venturer; (b) a Transfer of
                  any shares or interests in any person (other than in such
                  Venturer or in any person whose assets consist entirely or
                  almost entirely of a direct or indirect ownership interest in
                  such Venturer (a "SINGLE ASSET HOLDING COMPANY")) owning a
                  direct or indirect interest in the Joint Venture; (c) a
                  Transfer by reason of an initial public offering of a person
                  (but not such Venturer or any of its Single Asset Holding
                  Companies) owning a direct or indirect interest in the Joint
                  Venture; (d) a Transfer effected by the merger, reorganization
                  or recapitalization of or with MSDW or an Affiliate of MSDW or
                  RGI or an Affiliate of RGI (but not in any Venturer or any of
                  its Single Asset Holding Companies) or by the purchase of all
                  or substantially all of the assets or ownership interests of
                  RGI or an Affiliate of RGI or MSDW or an Affiliate of MSDW
                  (but not of any Venturer or any of its Single Asset Holding
                  Companies) or otherwise in connection with another corporate
                  transaction involving RGI or an Affiliate of RGI or MSDW or an
                  Affiliate of MSDW (but not of any Venturer or any of its
                  Single Asset Holding Companies) or (e) an Upstream Competitor
                  Transfer (defined below) which does not constitute a
                  Prohibited Transfer or a Restricted Transfer, provided that
                  any such Transfer (including the cases (a) through (e) above)
                  is for a legitimate business purpose and is not solely
                  intended to Transfer such Venturer's interest in the Joint
                  Venture, and provided further that any Transfer referred to
                  above does not constitute a Prohibited


                                      A-21
<Page>

                  Transfer or a Restricted Transfer. The Transfers identified in
                  the foregoing clauses (a) through (d) above are hereinafter
                  referred to individually as a "PERMITTED TRANSFER", and
                  collectively as "PERMITTED TRANSFERS". The following
                  additional provisions shall apply to Upstream Competitor
                  Transfers:

                  1.       An "UPSTREAM COMPETITOR TRANSFER" shall mean a
                           Transfer with respect to a transferring Venturer
                           (excluding Transfers of shares or interests in Public
                           Companies) which results in any direct or indirect
                           beneficial ownership in such transferring Venturer
                           being owned or controlled by any Competitor of the
                           non-transferring Venturer.

                  2.       In the case of any Upstream Competitor Transfer which
                           does not constitute a Restricted Upstream Competitor
                           Transfer, prior to or contemporaneously with such
                           Transfer (but in no event later than five (5)
                           Business Days after the earlier of the occurrence of
                           such Transfer or the issuance of any press release or
                           other public statement made by the Venturer seeking
                           to effect such Transfer or the Competitor in question
                           or their respective Affiliates concerning the
                           Upstream Competitor Transfer and the parties
                           involved), such Venturer shall provide written notice
                           thereof to the non-transferring Venturer, which
                           written notice shall include (a) a certification by
                           the transferring Venturer (i) of the name of the
                           Competitor in question and (ii) that the Transfer
                           does not constitute a Restricted Upstream Competitor
                           Transfer and (b) a confidentiality agreement in
                           customary form whereby the transferring Venturer and
                           such Competitor agree that any information regarding
                           the business of the non-transferring Venturer or any
                           of its Affiliates (as opposed to the financial or
                           physical operation of the Premises and the Joint
                           Venture) shall be kept in strict confidence by the
                           transferring Venturer and shall not be disclosed in
                           any manner to such Competitor or its Affiliates.

                  3.       "RESTRICTED TRANSFER" shall mean any Direct Transfer
                           or Restricted Upstream Competitor Transfer.

         5.       Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following provisions shall
                  apply to Upstream Competitor Transfers and Restricted Upstream
                  Competitor Transfers, as defined below:

                  1.       "RESTRICTED UPSTREAM COMPETITOR TRANSFER" shall mean
                           a Transfer with respect to a Venturer, excluding
                           Transfers of shares or interests in Public Companies,
                           which, together with and aggregating the effect of
                           any prior Transfers (A) would result in 25% or more
                           of the beneficial ownership in the direct or indirect
                           parent of such Venturer being directly or indirectly
                           owned by a single Competitor of the other Venturer or
                           (B) would result in 37.5% or more of the beneficial
                           ownership in the direct or indirect parent of such
                           transferring Venturer being directly or indirectly
                           owned by one or


                                      A-22
<Page>

                           more Competitors of the non-transferring Venturer
                           who, directly or through their Affiliates, are in the
                           same primary line of business (and that line of
                           business is in competition with a primary line of
                           business of the non-transferring Venturer or an
                           Affiliate of the non-transferring Venturer), whether
                           or not such Competitors are Affiliated or (C)
                           actually results in either Venturer being directly or
                           indirectly controlled by any single Competitor of the
                           non-transferring Venturer or two or more Competitors
                           of the non-transferring Venturer acting in concert
                           with each other. The direct or indirect beneficial
                           ownership interest in any Venturer owned or
                           controlled by a Competitor of the other Venturer and
                           Affiliates of such Competitor shall be aggregated for
                           all purposes of this Section (including any "control"
                           test).


                  2.       A Venturer seeking to effect a Restricted Upstream
                           Competitor Transfer (an "UPSTREAM OFFEROR") shall
                           provide written notice (the "UPSTREAM NOTICE") to the
                           other Venturer (an "UPSTREAM OFFEREE") prior to or
                           contemporaneously with the effectiveness of a
                           Upstream Competitor Transfer (but in no event later
                           than five (5) Business Days after the earlier of the
                           occurrence of such Restricted Upstream Competitor
                           Transfer and the issuance of any press release or
                           other public statement made by the transferring
                           Venturer or the Competitor in question or their
                           respective Affiliates concerning the Restricted
                           Upstream Competitor Transfer and the parties
                           involved), and such written notice shall include a
                           certification by Upstream Offeror of (a) the name of
                           the proposed transferee, (b) the aggregate percentage
                           direct or indirect beneficial ownership in the
                           transferring Venturer owned or controlled by such
                           Competitor (and such Competitor's Affiliates) and (c)
                           the existence or non-existence of any agreement by
                           such Competitor (or any of its Affiliates) to act in
                           concert with any other Competitor of the
                           non-transferring Venturer (or such Competitor's
                           Affiliates). All information contained in the
                           Upstream Notice, to the extent such information is
                           not generally available in the marketplace, shall be
                           kept in strict confidence by the Upstream Offeree.
                           Prior to or contemporaneously with the effective date
                           of any Restricted Upstream Competitor Transfer
                           (provided the Upstream Offeree has not theretofore
                           acquired the Upstream Offeror's interest in the Joint
                           Venture in accordance with the provisions set forth
                           below), the Upstream Offeror shall deliver to the
                           Upstream Offeree a customary confidentiality
                           agreement whereby the Upstream Offeror and the
                           Competitor referred to in the Upstream Notice agree
                           that any information regarding the business of the
                           Upstream Offeree or any of its Affiliates (as opposed
                           to the financial or physical operation of the Joint
                           Venture or the Project) shall be kept in strict
                           confidence by the Upstream Offeror and shall not be
                           disclosed in any manner to the Competitor or its
                           Affiliates.



                                      A-23
<Page>

                  3.       The Upstream Offeree shall have thirty (30) days
                           after its receipt of the Upstream Notice to elect by
                           notice to the Upstream Offeror (the "UPSTREAM
                           RESPONSE") whether or not it elects to purchase
                           Upstream Offeror's entire interest in the Joint
                           Venturer (such interest being the "UPSTREAM OFFEROR'S
                           INTEREST"), upon the terms set forth below. If the
                           Upstream Offeree does not timely so affirmatively
                           elect in the Upstream Response or, upon the
                           expiration of such thirty (30) day period, does not
                           timely deliver an Upstream Sale Response within three
                           (3) Business Days after Upstream Offeror delivers an
                           additional Deemed Approval Notice to Upstream Offeree
                           , it shall be deemed to have waived its rights
                           hereunder to purchase the Upstream Offeror's interest
                           in the Joint Venture with respect to that Upstream
                           Notice and the Competitor referred to therein. The
                           Upstream Offeree shall, within ten (10) days after
                           request by the Upstream Offeror, deliver a
                           certification to the Upstream Offeror confirming that
                           the Upstream Offeree has no further right to purchase
                           the Upstream Offeror's interest in the Joint Venture
                           and the Restricted Upstream Competitor Transfer
                           referred to in the Upstream Notice shall be free of
                           all rights of the Upstream Offeree under this SECTION
                           10, but no such certification shall be necessary to
                           make the terms hereof effective.


                  4.       If the Upstream Offeree shall have timely and
                           affirmatively elected, in the Upstream Response, to
                           purchase the Upstream Offeror's Interest, the
                           Upstream Offeror shall then have ten (10) Business
                           Days from the delivery of the Upstream Response by
                           notice to the Upstream Offeree (the "UPSTREAM
                           RESCISSION NOTICE") to rescind the Upstream Offer, in
                           which event, the Upstream Offeror shall have no right
                           to effect the Restricted Upstream Competitor Transfer
                           and the Upstream Offeree shall have not right to
                           acquire the Upstream Offeror's Interest in accordance
                           with this SECTION 10(D).

                  5.       If the Upstream Offeree affirmatively elects in the
                           Upstream Response to purchase the Upstream Offeror's
                           Interest, in the Upstream Response, and the Upstream
                           Offeror has not timely delivered the Upstream
                           Rescission Notice then the Upstream Notice and the
                           Upstream Response shall, taken together, constitute a
                           binding agreement for the purchase and sale of the
                           Upstream Offeror's interest. In that event, the terms
                           of this SECTION 10(B)(II), (III) AND (IV) shall
                           apply, except that for purposes of this SECTION
                           10(E)(V), (1) the term Upstream Notice shall be
                           substituted for the term Sale Notice; (2) the term
                           Upstream Response shall be substituted for the term
                           Purchase Notice, (3) the Offer Price shall be the
                           Fair Market Value of the Upstream Offeror's interest
                           in the Joint Venture, as determined pursuant to
                           SECTION 16 hereof and (4) the Deposit shall be
                           $10,000,000.



                                      A-24
<Page>

         6.       Except as set forth in this SECTION 10, no party shall be
                  admitted as an additional Venturer to the Joint Venture
                  without the consent of both Venturers.

         7.       No Venturer shall have the right to pledge, encumber or grant
                  any security interest in its interest in the Joint Venture,
                  except for the security interest granted to the other Venturer
                  in accordance with SECTION 20(C) below.

24.      DISPUTES; BUY-SELL.

         1.       If (I) any Venturer denies consent (or is deemed to have
                  denied its consent) to any Major Decision and the Venturers do
                  not resolve the dispute within thirty (30) days after such
                  denial or deemed denial, or (II) any Venturer becomes a
                  Defaulting Venturer, or (III) at any time on or prior to the
                  Option Effective Date, Land Owner's interest in the Land or
                  the Ground Lease, or Building Owner's interest in the Building
                  or the Ground Lease, is transferred by operation of law or
                  otherwise, other than in accordance with ARTICLES 22, 38 AND
                  46 of the Ground Lease, then in the case of clause (I) above,
                  each Venturer, subject to the last paragraph of SECTION 8(C)
                  above, shall have the right, to be exercised within sixty (60)
                  days after the expiration of the foregoing thirty (30) day
                  period, or, in the case of clause (II) above, the Venturer
                  that is not the Defaulting Venturer shall have the right at
                  any time, or, in the case of clause (III) above, the other
                  party shall have the right, to be exercised within sixty (60)
                  days after the Option Effective Date, to purchase from or sell
                  to the other Venturer its interest in the Joint Venture in the
                  manner set forth below. It is expressly understood that in no
                  event shall a Defaulting Venturer be entitled to initiate its
                  buy-sell right under this SECTION 11:

                  1.       The Venturer (the "BUY-SELL OFFEROR") may serve upon
                           the other Venturer (the "BUY-SELL OFFEREE") a notice
                           (the "BUY-SELL OFFERING NOTICE") stating its intent
                           to exercise the buy-sell and the dollar amount (the
                           "VALUATION") which the Buy-Sell Offeror as a third
                           party would be willing to pay for the Project as of
                           the date of the Buy-Sell Offering Notice assuming the
                           Project is free of all debt.

                  2.       The Buy-Sell Offeree shall have the option to elect
                           to do one of the following, and such option may be
                           exercised by notice (the "RESPONSE NOTICE") to the
                           Buy-Sell Offeror at any time within ninety (90) days
                           after its receipt of the Buy-Sell Offering Notice to
                           either:

                           (1)      sell its full interest in the Joint Venture
                                    to the Buy-Sell Offeror for an amount,
                                    determined by the Joint Venture's
                                    accountant, equal to the amount the Buy-Sell
                                    Offeree would have been entitled to receive
                                    if the Project had been sold for the
                                    Valuation and the proceeds of such sale were
                                    distributed in accordance with the terms of
                                    the JVA regarding the liquidation of the
                                    Joint Venture


                                      A-25
<Page>

                                    (reflecting, among other things, the
                                    repayment of any Deficit Loans), net of
                                    reasonable transaction expenses which would
                                    have been incurred if the Project had been
                                    sold for the Valuation; or

                           (2)      purchase the full interest in the Joint
                                    Venture of the Offeror for an amount,
                                    determined by the Joint Venture's
                                    accountant, equal to the amount the Offeror
                                    would have been entitled to receive if the
                                    Project had been sold for the Valuation and
                                    the proceeds of such sale were distributed
                                    in accordance with the terms of the JVA
                                    regarding the liquidation of the Joint
                                    Venture (reflecting, among other things, the
                                    repayment of any Deficit Loans), net of
                                    reasonable transaction expenses which would
                                    have been incurred if the Project had been
                                    sold for the Valuation.

                           (3)      If the Buy-Sell Offeree shall not exercise
                                    either of its options within such ninety
                                    (90) day period, then it shall be deemed to
                                    have exercised its option to sell its full
                                    interest in the Joint Venture to the
                                    Buy-Sell Offeror pursuant to SECTION
                                    11(A)(II)(1) above.

                  3.       The purchasing Venturer shall deposit into an escrow
                           account with the selling Venturer's attorney, a sum
                           equal to ten percent (10%) of the purchase price (the
                           "BUY-SELL DEPOSIT") for the selling Venturer's
                           interest as determined above within five (5) days
                           following the Response Notice or deemed election
                           pursuant to SECTION 11(A)(II)(3) above as security
                           for the purchase, which Buy-Sell Deposit shall be
                           paid to the selling Venturer at the closing of such
                           purchase as part of the purchase price.
                           Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the buy-sell is
                           triggered by the non-Defaulting Venturer by reason of
                           the other Venturer becoming a Defaulting Venturer,
                           such non-Defaulting Venturer shall not be required to
                           provide the Buy-Sell Deposit if it is the purchasing
                           Venturer. Any interest on the Buy-Sell Deposit shall
                           be credited to the purchasing Venturer unless such
                           purchasing Venturer defaults in which event the
                           interest shall go to the selling Venturer. Whichever
                           entity receives the interest shall pay all income
                           taxes thereon.

                  4.       The closing shall occur on the date which is one
                           hundred fifty (150) days following the Buy-Sell
                           Offering Notice. If either Venturer (the "NON-CLOSING
                           VENTURER") fails to close the purchase and sale
                           contemplated above on the closing date described
                           herein then the other Venturer (the "CLOSING
                           VENTURER") shall be entitled, (A) if the Non-Closing
                           Venturer is the seller, to the return of the Buy-Sell
                           Deposit and any accrued interest thereon, and/or to
                           seek specific performance or otherwise pursue its
                           remedies at law or in equity with respect to the
                           purchase and sale contemplated by such Buy-Sell
                           Offering Notice and Response Notice and (B) if the
                           Non-Closing Venturer is the purchaser, to keep the
                           Buy-Sell


                                      A-26
<Page>

                           Deposit as liquidated damages, to sell its interest
                           in the Joint Venture to any Qualified Third Party
                           (including a Competitor of the Non-Closing Venturer)
                           at any time within twenty-four (24) months after the
                           default of the Non-Closing Venturer without complying
                           with the provisions of this Section 10 and without
                           the consent of such Non-Closing Venturer and/or to
                           sell the Project on behalf of the Joint Venture to be
                           sold without the consent of the Non-Closing Venturer
                           and the net proceeds of any such sale shall be
                           distributed first to the Closing Venturer in an
                           amount equal to all losses, costs, expenses and
                           damages suffered by the Closing Venturer by reason of
                           such failure of the Non-Closing Venturer or in
                           connection with such sale and the remaining proceeds
                           shall be distributed in accordance with the
                           provisions of the JVA regarding liquidation of the
                           Joint Venture; provided, however, that if the
                           Non-Closing Venturer is the non-Defaulting Venturer,
                           the Closing Venturer (I.E., the Defaulting Venturer)
                           shall have no rights or remedies under this SECTION
                           11(A)(IV).

                  5.       On the closing date described above and at the
                           selling Venturer's attorneys' office in New York,
                           New, York,

                           (1)      the selling Venturer shall deliver to the
                                    purchasing Venturer a duly executed and
                                    acknowledged instrument of assignment
                                    conveying the interest of the selling
                                    Venturer to the purchasing Venturer or their
                                    designee, free and clear of all liens and
                                    encumbrances, which instrument shall contain
                                    surviving representations concerning the
                                    absence of such liens and encumbrances and
                                    that the selling Venturer has not taken any
                                    action on behalf of the Joint Venture in
                                    violation of the JVA and shall contain a
                                    provision indemnifying and holding the
                                    purchasing Venturer harmless from any loss,
                                    cost or expense (including reasonable
                                    attorneys' fees) it may incur by reason of
                                    any breach of such representations.
                                    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
                                    contained in SECTION 17 hereof, the
                                    purchasing Venturer shall have the right to
                                    look to the selling Venturer and the direct
                                    and indirect owners of the selling Venturer
                                    for any breach of such representations, but
                                    only to the extent of the proceeds of such
                                    sale;

                           (2)      the selling Venturer shall pay all transfer,
                                    stamp, gains or similar taxes due in
                                    connection with the conveyance of its
                                    Interest;

                           (3)      the purchasing Venturer shall pay the
                                    purchase price for the selling Venturer's
                                    interest as determined above (less the
                                    Buy-Sell Deposit and as adjusted by the
                                    credits and apportionments herein set forth)
                                    in cash;



                                      A-27
<Page>

                           (4)      net cash flow to the date of closing shall
                                    be distributed in accordance with the
                                    provisions of the JVA, the benefit of which
                                    provisions shall survive any closing
                                    pursuant hereto for purposes of making or
                                    correcting any customary closing
                                    adjustments; and

                           (5)      the Venturers shall execute all amendments
                                    to fictitious name or similar certificates
                                    necessary to reflect the withdrawal of the
                                    selling Venturer from the Joint Venture, the
                                    admission of any new Venturer to the Joint
                                    Venture and, if applicable, the termination
                                    of the Joint Venture.

         2.       Disputes arising from any Major Decisions for which neither
                  Venturer timely delivers a Buy-Sell Offering Notice shall be
                  submitted to arbitration for resolution with thirty (30) days
                  after the expiration of the sixty (60) day period referred to
                  in SECTION 11(A)(I), above.

25.      WITHDRAWAL OR BANKRUPTCY.

         1.       No Venturer shall withdraw from the Joint Venture except in
                  the case of a Permitted Transfer or termination of the Joint
                  Venture.

         2.       If any Venturer (herein called the "FAILED VENTURER") shall at
                  any time admit or be adjudicated to be insolvent, file or have
                  filed a petition in bankruptcy, make an assignment for the
                  benefit of creditors, suffer or permit the appointment of a
                  receiver or trustee, dissolve, liquidate or fail to do
                  business for any reason, then the other Venturer shall have
                  the right and option, exercisable by notice in writing to the
                  Failed Venturer, its successors or representatives, to acquire
                  the Joint Venture interest of the Failed Venturer at a price
                  equal to the amount, determined by the Joint Venture's
                  accountants, the Failed Venturer would have been entitled to
                  receive if the Project had been sold for its Distress FMV, net
                  of reasonable transaction expenses which would have been
                  incurred if the Project had been sold for such Appraised FMV
                  (reflecting among other things, the repayment of any Deficit
                  Loans). "APPRAISED FMV" means the fair market value of the
                  Project as determined by a qualified reputable appraiser
                  chosen by the non-Failed Venturer provided that any such
                  appraisal shall be approved by a bankruptcy court having
                  proper jurisdiction where such approval is required by the
                  court. The reasonable costs of such appraisal and any other
                  costs incurred in connection with such appraisal and court
                  approval shall be deducted from the price payable for the
                  Failed Venturer's interest.

26.      TAX MATTERS.

         1.       For federal, state and local income tax purposes, all items of
                  taxable income, deduction, credit and loss of the Joint
                  Venture for each fiscal year of the Joint Venture shall be
                  allocated to each Venturer in accordance with the allocation
                  of


                                      A-28
<Page>

                  the corresponding item of profits and losses, except as may
                  otherwise be required under SECTION 13(D) below. The Joint
                  Venture shall be treated as a partnership for all such tax
                  purposes.

         2.       The Joint Venture shall, if requested by either Venturer, make
                  the election under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code of
                  1986, as the same may be amended from time to time (the
                  "CODE").

         3.       Building Owner Member shall be the "Tax Matters" partner as
                  defined in Section 6231(a)(7) of the Code, it being understood
                  that all tax decisions and elections for the Joint Venture
                  shall be agreed upon by both of the Venturers (except as
                  provided in SECTION 13(B) above).

         4.       If any property of the Joint Venture shall be reflected in the
                  capital accounts of the Joint Venture at a value that differs
                  from its adjusted basis for federal income tax purposes, the
                  profits and losses of the Joint Venture and items of income,
                  loss, deduction and gain shall be allocated among the
                  Venturers in a manner that eliminates such difference in
                  accordance with Section 704(c) of the Code and the Treasury
                  Regulations issued thereunder (and pursuant to Reg. ss.
                  1.704-1(b)(4)(i)) using the traditional method specified in
                  Treasury Regulations issued under Section 704(c) of the Code.

27.      BORROWING. Except as may be approved as a Major Decision, neither the
         Joint Venture, nor any Venturer on behalf of the Joint Venture, shall
         directly, or indirectly, borrow money or become obligated upon or
         liable for any monies borrowed, and shall not, as a Venturer, cause the
         Joint Venture to assume, guarantee or act as surety for any obligation
         or liability (whether for borrowed money or otherwise) of any other
         person without, in each case, the prior written consent of the
         Controlling Block.

28.      OUTSIDE TRANSACTIONS. Either Venturer may engage in or possess an
         interest in other business ventures of any nature or description,
         independently or with others, whether presently existing or hereafter
         created, including, but not limited to, the commercial and residential
         real estate businesses in all of their phases, which shall include,
         without limitation, the ownership, leasing, operation, management,
         syndication, servicing and/or development of commercial and residential
         real property, including property competitive with the Project, and
         neither Venturer shall have any rights in or to such independent
         ventures or the income or profits derived therefrom. Notwithstanding
         the foregoing, the Operating Venturer shall have a fiduciary duty to
         the other Venturer for the performance of its obligations under the
         JVA.

29.      FAIR MARKET VALUE. For purposes of determining "Fair Market Value" of
         the Project pursuant to SECTIONS 5(B)(IV) OR 10(E)(V) above or SECTION
         20(B)(V) below, the same, if not otherwise agreed upon by the
         Venturers, shall be submitted to and determined by binding "baseball"
         arbitration, as follows:



                                      A-29
<Page>

         1.       Each Venturer shall, within ten (10) days after a dispute
                  arises, (a) appoint a disinterested person who is a reputable
                  MAI (or its successor organization) appraiser (an "APPRAISER")
                  with at least 10 years experience in appraising major office
                  buildings in the Borough of Manhattan and (b) give notice of
                  such appointment to the other Venturer.

         2.       Such Appraisers shall either (i) within forty-five (45) days
                  after the later of the notices referred to in clause (a) have
                  been delivered, determine and promptly report to each Venturer
                  in writing the Fair Market Value of the Project, or (ii) if
                  they cannot agree within such forty-five (45) day period,
                  deliver separate reports to each Venturer within fifteen (15)
                  days of the expiration of such forty-five (45) day period.

         3.       If the two Appraisers cannot agree within the time frame set
                  forth in CLAUSE (B)(I) above, then they shall promptly jointly
                  appoint a third Appraiser who shall determine the Fair Market
                  Value of the Project by selecting either Venturer's designated
                  Appraiser's Fair Market Value determination according to
                  whichever of the two valuations is closer to the actual Fair
                  Market Value in the opinion of such third Appraiser (I.E. the
                  third Appraiser shall not choose a third determination).

         4.       If the two Appraisers shall fail to agree upon the designation
                  of a third Appraiser within thirty (30) days from the
                  expiration of the time frame set forth in clause (b)(i), then
                  either Venturer may apply to the AAA for the designation of
                  such Appraiser and if the AAA is unable or fails to designate
                  a third Appraiser within ten (10) Business Days after a
                  request therefor, then either Venturer may apply to the
                  Supreme Court in New York County or to any other court having
                  jurisdiction for the designation of such Appraiser.

         5.       If a Venturer who shall have a right to appoint an Appraiser
                  fails or refuses to do so within the time frame specified
                  herein and such failure continues for five (5) Business Days
                  after notice from the non-failing Venturer stating in boldface
                  capitalized letters that such failure to appoint such
                  Appraiser within such five (5) Business Day period will result
                  in the non-failing Venturer's right to seek the appointment by
                  AAA or a court of a single Appraiser who will determine the
                  Fair Market Value, then the non-failing Venturer may apply to
                  AAA for the designation of a single Appraiser and if AAA is
                  unable or fails to designate such Appraiser within ten (10)
                  Business Days after a request therefor, such non-failing
                  Venturer may apply to the Supreme Court in New York County or
                  to any other court having jurisdiction for the designation of
                  such Appraiser and the determination of such single appointed
                  Appraiser alone shall control.

         6.       The appraisal shall be conducted in the City of New York.



                                      A-30
<Page>

         7.       The expense of the arbitration and the fees and disbursements
                  of the third Appraiser shall be shared equally by the
                  Venturers, but each Venturer shall be responsible for the fees
                  and disbursements of the Appraiser it appoints and its own
                  attorneys and the expenses of its own proof. The Venturers
                  shall execute, acknowledge and deliver such other and further
                  documents and instruments as may be necessary to submit such
                  dispute to arbitration.

         8.       The Appraisers shall have no power to modify any of the
                  provisions of the JVA or this Agreement and their jurisdiction
                  is limited accordingly. Each Appraiser shall be an independent
                  real estate appraiser who is a member of the American
                  Institute of Appraisers (or any successor organization) having
                  at least ten (10) years then current experience in the
                  appraisal of land and commercial buildings in the Borough of
                  Manhattan, New York City.

         9.       The Venturers promptly shall execute, acknowledge and deliver
                  an agreement confirming the Fair Market Value of the Project,
                  as so determined, but their failure to do so shall not affect
                  such determination.

30.      LIMIT OF LIABILITY. Each Venturer shall look solely to the interest of
         the other Venturer in and to the Joint Venture in the event of breach
         or default by the other Venturer pursuant to the provisions of the
         Joint Venture Agreement; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the foregoing
         provisions of this SECTION shall not be deemed or construed to limit
         (i) any of the rights or options granted to a Non-Withholding Venturer
         pursuant to SECTION 6 hereof, (ii) the liability of either Venturer to
         the other for any negligent act or omission or any wrongful act, (iii)
         any claims asserted by any third party or third parties against the
         Joint Venture or either Venturer and the right of the Venturers to
         contribution from each other in respect of any such claims, (vi) the
         liability of Building Owner Member for its indemnification obligations
         pursuant to SECTION 5(B)(III)(7) hereof; (vii) the liability of the
         Offeror for the breach of the representations pursuant to SECTION
         10(B)(II)(1) hereof; (viii) the liability of the selling Venturer for
         the breach of the representations pursuant to SECTION 11(A)(V)(1)
         hereof; (ix) the liability of the Offeror for the breach of the
         representations provided in SECTION 10(B)(II)(1) hereof as such
         representations relate to a Transfer to a Competitor pursuant to
         SECTION 10(C)(III) hereof or the liability of the Upstream Offeror for
         the breach of the representations provided in SECTION 10(B)(II)(1)
         hereof as such representations relate to Upstream Competitor Transfer
         pursuant to SECTION 10(E) hereof; (x) the rights of either Venturer to
         the Deposit pursuant to SECTION 10(b) hereof, the deposit with respect
         to Transfers to Competitors pursuant to SECTION 10(C) hereof, the
         deposit with respect to Restricted Upstream Competitor Transfers
         pursuant to SECTION 10(E) hereof or the Buy-Sell Deposit pursuant to
         SECTION 11(A) hereof; and (xi) rights under the Guaranty or the Pledge.

31.      LEASING AGENT.

         1.       Provided the conditions set forth in SECTION 18(B) below have
                  been satisfied, then RCMC, or its Affiliate shall be the
                  leasing agent (the "LEASING AGENT") for the


                                      A-31
<Page>

                  Joint Venture other than with respect to signage pursuant to a
                  leasing agreement on fair market financial terms taking into
                  account, among other things, RCMC's (or such Affiliate's) then
                  market share and expertise in the leasing of commercial space
                  in Manhattan and otherwise substantially incorporating the
                  non-monetary terms of any leasing agreement with RCMC (or such
                  Affiliate) entered into by Building Owner in accordance with
                  the Ground Lease, or if such leasing agreement shall not have
                  been entered into, otherwise on commercially reasonable terms
                  and in all cases in form and substance satisfactory to the
                  Building Owner Member (the "RCMC LEASING AGREEMENT").


         2.       The Joint Venture shall have no obligation to enter into the
                  RCMC Leasing Agreement unless the following conditions are
                  satisfied (and the RCMC Leasing Agent may be terminated if, at
                  any time, such conditions do not continue to be satisfied):

                  1.       Rock-Forty-Ninth LLC or another Wholly Owned
                           Affiliate of RGI shall maintain at least a
                           twenty-five percent (25%) interest in the Joint
                           Venture;

                  2.       no prior leasing agreement or management agreement
                           with respect to the Project shall have been
                           terminated due to a default by RCMC (or any Affiliate
                           of RGI);

                  3.       RCMC (or such managing Affiliate) is a Wholly-Owned
                           Affiliate of RGI and (A) 25% or more of the
                           beneficial ownership in RGI is not directly or
                           indirectly owned by a single Competitor of Building
                           Owner Member and (B) 37.5% or more of the beneficial
                           ownership in RGI is not directly or indirectly owned
                           by one or more Competitors of Building Owner Member
                           who, directly or through their Affiliates, are in the
                           same primary line of business (and that line of
                           business is in competition with a primary line of
                           business of Building Owner Member or an Affiliate of
                           Building Owner Member), whether or not such
                           Competitors are Affiliated with each other and (C)
                           RGI is not directly or indirectly controlled by any
                           single Competitor of Building Owner Member or two or
                           more Competitors of the Building Owner Member acting
                           in concert with each other. In the event the
                           conditions set forth in this clause (iii) are
                           satisfied, but a Competitor of Building Owner Member
                           owns a direct or indirect interest in RGI (which does
                           not rise to the levels specified in clauses (A)
                           through (C), above), RGI and RCMC (or such leasing
                           agent Affiliate) shall provide an agreement
                           reasonably satisfactory to Building Owner Member in
                           which RGI and RCMC (or such leasing agent Affiliate)
                           agree in writing not to disclose any information
                           regarding the business of the Building Owner Member
                           or any of its Affiliates (as opposed to the financial
                           or physical operation of the Project) to such
                           Competitor or Competitors of Building Owner Member;



                                      A-32
<Page>

                  4.       RCMC (or such leasing agent Affiliate) is the leasing
                           agent of at least 4 million square feet of commercial
                           space in Manhattan (exclusive of the Building); and

                  5.       the Joint Venture owns the Project.

         3.       The direct or indirect of beneficial ownership interest in RGI
                  owned or controlled by a Competitor of Building Owner Member
                  and Affiliates of such Competitor shall be aggregated for all
                  purposes of clause (iii) above (including any "control" test).
                  Any dispute over the terms of the RCMC Leasing Agreement which
                  has not been resolved within sixty (60) days after Building
                  Owner Member on behalf of the Joint Venture has delivered to
                  Land Owner a form of such agreement, shall be resolved by
                  arbitration in accordance with SECTION 4 of the Agreement.

32.      AFFILIATECONTRACTS. In the event the Joint Venture enters into any
         agreement with a Venturer or an Affiliate of a Venturer (subject to the
         consent of the Controlling Block to any such agreement) except for
         those agreements specifically provided for and consented to in this
         Agreement, including, without limitation, the RCMC Management
         Agreement, the RCMC Leasing Agreement, the MS Lease Option, or any
         space lease executed in connection therewith and the Land Owner's Lease
         Option, or any space lease executed in connection therewith (any such
         agreement being referred to as an "AFFILIATE CONTRACT"), then the
         following provisions shall apply with respect to such Affiliate
         Contract:

         1.       In case of any default under an Affiliate Contract or any
                  dispute or matter requiring an interpretation on behalf of the
                  Joint Venture under an Affiliate Contract:

                  1.       the other Venturer shall have the sole right to
                           enforce such Affiliate Contract and to exercise all
                           remedies under such Affiliate Contract without the
                           consent of the Affiliated Venturer and to make any
                           such interpretation and resolve any such dispute; and

                  2.       in the case of the RCMC Management Agreement or RCMC
                           Leasing Agreement, or any other management agreement,
                           leasing agreement or other service or material supply
                           contract, the Venturer not Affiliated with such party
                           shall have the right, upon the termination thereof,
                           to enter into a replacement agreement with third
                           party not an Affiliate of either Venturer and on such
                           fair market terms and conditions as such
                           non-Affiliate Venturer may determine in its sole good
                           faith discretion, without the consent of such
                           Affiliated Venturer.

         2.       The terms and conditions of each Affiliate Contract, any
                  modification thereof, and the negotiation of such Affiliate
                  Contracts and any arbitration arising out of the terms
                  thereof, or waiver of any obligation of a party to such
                  agreement, and any


                                      A-33
<Page>

                  direction, consent and approval required thereunder, shall be
                  subject to the reasonable approval of the non-Affiliated
                  Venturer.

33.      EVENTS OF DEFAULT; REMEDIES.

         1.       Each of the following events, and with respect to CLAUSES (I)
                  and (II) below only, if the same shall continue for three (3)
                  Business Days after an additional notice is delivered from the
                  Venturer not committing the act set forth below to the
                  Venturer which committed said act, shall constitute an "Event
                  of Default" hereunder:

                  1.       if any Venturer fails to make any contribution or
                           payment which it is required to make under this
                           Agreement within ten (10) Business Days after notice
                           from the other Venturer that such Venturer failed to
                           make such contribution or payment on the due date
                           therefor; provided however that (a) any such failure
                           to make a payment or contribution shall not
                           constitute a default or Event of Default, if, in
                           accordance with SECTION 6(B)(I) hereof, the
                           Non-Withholding Venturer contributes for its own
                           capital account the amount of any such Deficiency
                           with respect to such payment or contribution not so
                           made by the Withholding Venturer or (b) if the
                           Non-Withholding Venturer makes a Deficit Loan in
                           accordance with SECTION 6(B)(II) hereof with respect
                           to such payment or contribution not so made by the
                           Withholding Venturer, and provided the non-Defaulting
                           Venturer has not delivered a Buy-Sell Offering Notice
                           in accordance with SECTION 11(A) hereof, then any
                           such default or Event of Default shall be deemed
                           cured from and after the date upon which any such
                           Deficit Loan (and all interest accrued thereon) is
                           paid in full by the Withholding Venturer;

                  2.       if any Venturer defaults in the observance or
                           performance of any term, covenant or condition of
                           this Agreement, other than a default in making a
                           contribution or payment and such default continues
                           for thirty (30) days after such Venturer receives
                           notice thereof from another Venturer (or, if such
                           default cannot reasonably be cured within such thirty
                           (30) day period by virtue of the nature of such
                           default, such Venturer does not commence to cure such
                           default within such period and thereafter diligently
                           prosecute such cure to completion); or

                  3.       if any act or omission of a Venturer causes an event
                           of default (beyond applicable notice and grace
                           periods) to occur under any indebtedness of the Joint
                           Venture; or

                  4.       any default by a Venturer under the right of first
                           offer or buy-sell option contained herein; or

                  5.       if any Venturer withdraws from the Joint Venture or
                           becomes a Failed Venturer.



                                      A-34
<Page>

         2.       If a Venturer (the "DEFAULTING VENTURER") has caused an Event
                  of Default hereunder, then the other Venturer (the
                  "NON-DEFAULTING VENTURER") may exercise any one or more of the
                  remedies described below:

                  1.       institute suit in any court of competent jurisdiction
                           to obtain (i) specific performance of the obligations
                           of the Defaulting Venturer under this Agreement, (ii)
                           reimbursement for all costs of court and reasonable
                           attorneys' fees thereby incurred and (iii) damages,
                           if any, resulting to the Joint Venture or the
                           Non-Defaulting Venturer from such Event of Default by
                           the Defaulting Venturer plus interest thereon at the
                           Lease Interest Rate from the date incurred until the
                           date paid;

                  2.       cure the Event of Default, in which case the
                           Defaulting Venturer shall pay to the Non-Defaulting
                           Venturer, on demand, the cost of such cure (including
                           any interest on funds borrowed for the purpose)
                           together with interest thereon at the Lease Interest
                           Rate from the date incurred until the date paid;

                  3.       elect to terminate the Joint Venture;

                  4.       exercise the buy-sell option pursuant to SECTION 11
                           hereof; and/or

                  5.       exercise the right to purchase the Defaulting
                           Venturer's interest for an amount equal to the
                           amount, determined by the Joint Venture's
                           accountants, the Defaulting Venturer would have been
                           entitled to receive if the Project had been sold for
                           its Fair Market Value determined in accordance with
                           SECTION 16 hereof (reflecting, among other things,
                           the repayment of Deficit Loans), less the costs of
                           the appraisal and any other costs incurred by the
                           Non-Defaulting Venturer in connection with the
                           appraisal and less all losses, costs, expenses and
                           damages suffered by the Non-Defaulting Venturer by
                           reason of such default of the Defaulting Venturer.

         3.       Each of the Venturers hereby assigns and grants to the other
                  Venturer a first priority lien upon, and a security interest
                  in, the interest of such Venturer in the Joint Venture and all
                  amounts, payments and proceeds becoming distributable or
                  payable to such Venturer by the Joint Venture, as collateral
                  security for the payment and performance of such Venturer's
                  obligations under the JVA (including, without limitation, all
                  of such Venturer's obligations with respect to the right of
                  first offer and buy-sell provision herein). Each Venturer
                  shall execute such financing statements as the other Venturer
                  shall reasonably request in order to perfect and maintain the
                  perfection of the lien and security interest herein granted.
                  Any transfer of the Joint Venture interest of a Venturer shall
                  be subject to such lien and security interest. Each Venturer
                  shall notify each other Venturer


                                      A-35
<Page>

                  within thirty (30) days of any change in its chief executive
                  offices from that set forth in the JVA.


         4.       If (and only if) a Venturer becomes a Defaulting Venturer, all
                  amounts, payments and proceeds which may become distributable
                  or payable by the Joint Venture to such Defaulting Venturer
                  which are secured by a security interest created pursuant to
                  the above paragraph, shall be paid to the Non-Defaulting
                  Venturer until all amounts due to the Non-Defaulting Venturer
                  have been paid in full, but shall nevertheless be deemed to
                  have been distributed to the Defaulting Venturer.

34.      ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATES.

         1.       Each Venturer agrees at any time and from to time, upon not
                  less than ten (10) days' prior request by the other Venturer
                  to execute, acknowledge and deliver to such Venturer a
                  statement in writing certifying (a) that the JVA is unmodified
                  and in full force and effect (or if there have been
                  modifications, that the same is in full force and effect as
                  modified and stating the modifications), (b) the Percentage
                  Interests of the Venturers and (c) whether or not, to the best
                  knowledge of the Venturer giving such certificate, there is
                  any existing default or Event of Default under the JVA on the
                  part of the other Venturer and, if so, specifying each such
                  default or Event of Default, it being intended that any such
                  statement delivered pursuant to this SECTION 21 may be relied
                  upon the Venturer requesting such statement and by any
                  prospective purchaser of such Venturer's interest in the Joint
                  Venture.

         2.       If a Venturer shall fail or refuse to execute, acknowledge and
                  deliver the statement required under this SECTION 21 within
                  twenty (20) days after request from the other Venturer, the
                  requesting Venturer shall have the right to send a Deemed
                  Approval Notice with the certifications set forth below, and
                  if such failure or refusal continues for five (5) Business
                  Days after such Deemed Approval Notice, it shall be deemed
                  that such Venturer has certified that (i) the JVA is
                  unmodified and in full force and effect and (ii) to the best
                  of its knowledge there are no existing defaults or Events of
                  Default on the part of the other Venturer to the JVA.

35.      COOPERATION BY VENTURERS. Each Venturer shall reasonably cooperate with
         the other Venturer in connection with any transfer of such Venturer's
         interest in accordance with SECTION 10 hereof (including the right of
         first offer provisions thereof), SECTION 20(B)(V) hereof, the exercise
         of the buy-sell right in accordance with SECTION 11 hereof or the
         exercise of the right to purchase any Failed Venturer's interest in
         accordance with SECTION 12 hereof and shall cause the Joint Venture's
         accountants to provide the determinations of net cash flow, buy-sell
         prices and the purchase price under said SECTION 12 to be determined
         within the time frames contemplated under said SECTIONS 10, 11 and 12.



                                      A-36
<Page>

36.      OTHER TERMS. The JVA shall contain such other reasonable additional
         terms, conditions and provisions agreed to by the parties which are not
         inconsistent with the terms of this EXHIBIT A, including, without
         limitation, the incorporation of additional provisions, mechanisms and
         procedures in furtherance of the terms hereof.







                                      A-37
<Page>

                                     ANNEX I

                              CERTAIN DEFINED TERMS

Term                                                                        Page
- ----                                                                        ----

AAA ..........................................................................6
Affiliate Contract.........................................................A-34
Agreement ....................................................................1
Apportioned Continuing Lease Costs..........................................A-4
Appraiser .................................................................A-30
Budget ....................................................................A-16
Building Owner ...............................................................1
Building Owner Member.......................................................A-1
Buy-Sell Deposit ..........................................................A-27
Buy-Sell Offeree ..........................................................A-26
Buy-Sell Offering Notice...................................................A-26
Buy-Sell Offeror ..........................................................A-26
Closing Venturer ..........................................................A-27
Code ......................................................................A-29
Competitor Sale Notice.....................................................A-20
Competitor Sale Response...................................................A-21
Continuing Lease .............................................................9
Continuing Leases ............................................................9
Continuing Project Obligations..............................................A-1
Contract Excess .............................................................17
Controlling Block .........................................................A-11
Cost Notice .................................................................15
Cost Objection ..............................................................15
Defaulting Venturer........................................................A-35
Deficiency ................................................................A-10
Deficit Loan ..............................................................A-10
Deposit ...................................................................A-18
Depreciable Life ............................................................13
Direct Transfer ...........................................................A-17
Disputed Amount .............................................................16
Distress FMV ..............................................................A-29
Due Diligence Certificate.....................................................3
Due Diligence Documents.......................................................3
Failed Venturer ...........................................................A-29
Fair Market Value .........................................................A-30
Financial Statements..........................................................3
First Budget ..............................................................A-16
Ground Lease .................................................................1
Incomplete Shared Capital Improvements.......................................13


                                       i
<Page>

Joint Venture ................................................................2
JV Option Agreement.........................................................A-1
JVA ..........................................................................2
Land .........................................................................1
Land Owner ...................................................................1
Land Owner's Lease Option....................................................10
Leasing Agent .............................................................A-32
Major Decisions ...........................................................A-13
MS ..........................................................................10
MS Lease ....................................................................10
MS Lease Option .............................................................10
MSDW ......................................................................A-13
Non-Closing Venturer.......................................................A-27
Non-Defaulting Venturer....................................................A-35
Non-Withholding Venturer...................................................A-10
notice .......................................................................7
Offer Price ...............................................................A-18
Offeree ...................................................................A-18
Offeror ...................................................................A-18
Operating Venturer.........................................................A-12
Option Effective Date.........................................................1
Percentage Interests........................................................A-9
Present Tax Contest.........................................................A-6
Prohibited Transfer........................................................A-17
Project ......................................................................2
Proposing Venturer.........................................................A-15
Purchase Notice ...........................................................A-18
Qualified Third Party......................................................A-20
RCMC Leasing Agreement.....................................................A-32
RCMC Management Agreement..................................................A-12
Reimbursable Amount..........................................................14
Reimbursement Notice.........................................................14
Requested Amount ...........................................................A-9
Responding Venturer........................................................A-15
Response Notice ...........................................................A-26
Rule ........................................................................19
Sale Notice ...............................................................A-18
Shared Capital Improvement...................................................13
Threshold Amount ............................................................14
Upstream Notice ...........................................................A-23
Upstream Offeree ..........................................................A-23
Upstream Offeror ..........................................................A-23
Upstream Offeror's Interest................................................A-24


                                       ii
<Page>

Upstream Recission Notice..................................................A-25
Upstream Response .........................................................A-24
Valuation .................................................................A-26
Venturer ...................................................................A-1
Venturers ..................................................................A-1
Withholding Venturer........................................................A-9


                                      iii

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>a2071673zex-12.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 12
<TEXT>
<Page>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 12

                 LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND TO
              COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
                                  (UNAUDITED)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                       FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED NOVEMBER 30
                                                 ----------------------------------------------------
                                                   1997       1998       1999       2000       2001
                                                 --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
<S>                                              <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Pre-tax earnings from continuing operations....  $   937    $ 1,052    $ 1,631    $ 2,579    $ 1,748
Add: Fixed charges (excluding capitalized
  interest)....................................   13,043     15,813     13,681     18,778     15,724
                                                 -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
Pre-tax earnings before fixed charges..........   13,980     16,865     15,312     21,357     17,472
                                                 =======    =======    =======    =======    =======

Fixed charges:
  Interest.....................................   13,010     15,781     13,649     18,740     15,656
  Other(a).....................................       41         47         71         57         78
                                                 -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
  Total fixed charges..........................   13,051     15,828     13,720     18,797     15,734
                                                 -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
Preferred stock dividend requirements..........      109        124        174        195        192
                                                 -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
Total combined fixed charges and preferred
  stock dividends..............................  $13,160    $15,952    $13,894    $18,992    $15,926
                                                 =======    =======    =======    =======    =======

RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES.............     1.07       1.07       1.12       1.14       1.11
RATIO OF EARNINGS TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND
  PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS....................     1.06       1.06       1.10       1.12       1.10
</Table>

- ------------------------

(a) Other fixed charges consist of the interest factor in rentals and
    capitalized interest.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>a2071673zex-13.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 13
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                      EXHIBIT 13


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
 OPERATIONS

Financial Summary Fiscal 2001                                                 39
Business Environment                                                          39
Results of Operations                                                         40
Geographic Diversification                                                    44
Non-Interest Expenses                                                         44
Income Taxes  45
Liquidity, Funding and Capital Resources                                      45
   Liquidity Risk Management                                                  45
   Managing Liquidity, Funding and Capital Resources                          47
   Total Capital                                                              48
   Back-Up Credit Facilities                                                  48
   Balance Sheet                                                              49
   Financial Leverage                                                         49
   Credit Ratings                                                             49
   High Yield Securities                                                      49
   Private Equity                                                             50
Summary of Contractual Obligations                                            50
Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments and Derivatives                       51
   Overview   51
   Lehman Brothers' Use of Derivative Instruments                             52
Risk Management                                                               53
   Credit Risk                                                                53
   Market Risk                                                                53
   Value-at-Risk                                                              54
Significant Accounting Policies                                               56
New Accounting Developments                                                   57
Effects of Inflation                                                          57

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS                                                58
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                             59
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                    65
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA                                                       94



                                       38
<PAGE>



FINANCIAL SUMMARY FISCAL 2001

In 2001, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ("Holdings") and subsidiaries
(collectively, the "Company" or "Lehman Brothers") reported its second best year
of financial results, surpassed only by last year's record results. This
performance, in an extremely difficult market environment and coupled with the
direct effects of the September 11 terrorist attack, demonstrates the depth and
resiliency of the Company's franchise. During the year, the Company continued to
strengthen the depth and breadth of its businesses, achieving top of peer group
financial results and making strategic market share gains. Market share for
global equity origination increased by 41% and global debt origination increased
by 14% year-over-year, respectively, according to Thomson Financial Securities
Data Corp. ("TFSD"). Market share gains were also realized in key capital
markets' products in 2001, as the Company's market share for listed and NASDAQ
average trading volumes increased by 44% and 31%, respectively. The Company also
continued to maintain a strict discipline with regard to its core competencies
of managing expenses, risk management and capital deployment during the year.

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT

The principal business activities of the Company are investment banking and
securities sales and trading, which by their nature are subject to volatility,
primarily due to changes in interest and foreign exchange rates and security
valuations, global economic and political trends and industry competition. As a
result, revenues and earnings may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and
from year to year.

Marketplace uncertainties experienced in the second half of 2000 continued into
2001, as lower corporate profits and a slower pace of economic growth resulted
in generally weak market conditions. The September 11 terrorist attack hastened
the global economic slowdown. In response to these conditions, the Federal
Reserve lowered interest rates ten times during the fiscal year, bringing the
Federal Funds rate to 2.0%. Reductions in the Federal Funds rate for the fiscal
year totaled 450 basis points. In December 2001, the Federal Reserve again cut
the Federal Funds rate another 25 basis points, bringing the overnight bank
lending rate to its lowest level in nearly 40 years.

As a result of these economic conditions, all of the major equity markets posted
lower returns when compared to the previous several years. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average ("DJIA") finished the year at 9,852, down 5% from fiscal
year-end 2000. The NASDAQ Composite and the S&P 500 decreased 26% and 13%,
respectively, from the fiscal year-end of 2000.

Globally, other world markets experienced the same slowing of economic growth,
recessionary fears and declines in equity market indexes. The FTSE 100 decreased
15% during the fiscal year while the DAX decreased 22%. In Asia, the Nikkei was
down almost 30%, resulting in its lowest level in the past two decades. To help
spur economic growth, stabilize markets and boost consumer confidence, major
central banks throughout the world made numerous cuts to their respective
lending rates during the year. The European Central Bank and the Bank of England
cut rates four and seven times, respectively, during the fiscal year.

Equity origination markets continued to feel the effects of the uncertain
economic outlook. Market volume for global initial public offerings ("IPOs") was
down over 60%, and global equity origination market volume was down over 25%
when compared to 2000, according to TFSD.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOME OF THE STATEMENTS CONTAINED IN THIS MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, INCLUDING THOSE RELATING TO THE
COMPANY'S STRATEGY AND OTHER STATEMENTS THAT ARE PREDICTIVE IN NATURE, THAT
DEPEND UPON OR REFER TO FUTURE EVENTS OR CONDITIONS OR THAT INCLUDE WORDS SUCH
AS "EXPECTS," "ANTICIPATES," "INTENDS," "PLANS," "BELIEVES," "ESTIMATES" AND
SIMILAR EXPRESSIONS, ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS WITHIN THE MEANING OF
SECTION 21E OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934. THESE STATEMENTS ARE NOT
HISTORICAL FACTS BUT INSTEAD REPRESENT ONLY THE COMPANY'S EXPECTATIONS,
ESTIMATES AND PROJECTIONS REGARDING FUTURE EVENTS. THESE STATEMENTS ARE NOT
GUARANTEES OF FUTURE PERFORMANCE AND INVOLVE CERTAIN RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
THAT ARE DIFFICULT TO PREDICT, WHICH MAY INCLUDE MARKET, CREDIT OR COUNTERPARTY,
LIQUIDITY, LEGAL AND OPERATIONAL RISKS. MARKET AND LIQUIDITY RISKS INCLUDE
CHANGES IN INTEREST AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES AND SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES
VALUATIONS, THE AVAILABILITY AND COST OF CAPITAL AND CREDIT, CHANGES IN INVESTOR
SENTIMENT, GLOBAL ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL TRENDS AND INDUSTRY COMPETITION. LEGAL
RISKS INCLUDE LEGISLATIVE AND REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS IN THE U.S. AND THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. THE COMPANY'S ACTUAL RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION MAY DIFFER,
PERHAPS MATERIALLY, FROM THE ANTICIPATED RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION IN ANY
SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND, ACCORDINGLY, READERS ARE CAUTIONED NOT TO
PLACE UNDUE RELIANCE ON SUCH STATEMENTS. THE COMPANY UNDERTAKES NO OBLIGATION TO
UPDATE ANY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS, WHETHER AS A RESULT OF NEW INFORMATION,
FUTURE EVENTS OR OTHERWISE.


                                       39

<PAGE>



Fixed income markets, however, benefited from declining interest rates. Global
debt origination remained strong throughout the year as interest rate cuts by
many central banks resulted in very attractive borrowing rates. Reflecting this
improving market, investment-grade global debt issuance for the fiscal year was
up 45%, according to TFSD.

Merger and acquisition advisory activity, which reached record levels in fiscal
2000, slowed significantly in fiscal 2001, as marketplace uncertainties and
declining global equity markets led to a reduction in activity. Worldwide
completed mergers and acquisitions for fiscal 2001 decreased 33% during the
year, according to TFSD. In addition, announced transaction volumes
industry-wide decreased approximately 50% when compared to fiscal year 2000.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Despite the relatively weak market conditions and the disruption to the
Company's operations resulting from the events of September 11, the Company
reported net revenues of $6,736 million, net income of $1,255 million and
earnings per share (diluted) of $4.38, its second best year of financial
results. These results demonstrate the diversity of the Company's revenue base,
both from a business and a regional perspective. The Company's results in 2001
include the impact of a $127 million pretax special charge stemming from the
events of September 11, which resulted in the displacement and relocation of the
Company's New York employees located in lower Manhattan. (Additional information
about the special charge can be found in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.) Excluding the special charge, net income was $1,326 million and
earnings per share (diluted) were $4.64 compared to net income of $1,775 million
and earnings per share (diluted) of $6.38 for 2000 and net income of $1,132
million and earnings per share (diluted) of $4.08 for 1999.

The Company is segregated into three business segments (each of which is
described below): Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Client Services. Each
segment represents a group of activities and products with similar
characteristics. These business activities result in revenues from both
institutional and high-net-worth retail clients, which are recognized across all
revenue categories contained in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Income.
(Net revenues by segment also contain certain internal allocations, including
funding costs, which are centrally managed.)

NET REVENUES

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                 Principal
                                             Transactions,
                                           Commissions and   Investment
In millions                                   Net Interest      Banking        Other        Total
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>           <C>         <C>           <C>

TWELVE MONTHS ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 2001
Investment Banking                                $      -       $1,925     $      -       $1,925
Capital Markets                                      4,011            -           13        4,024
Client Services                                        673           75           39          787
                                                  -----------------------------------------------
Total                                               $4,684       $2,000      $    52       $6,736
TWELVE MONTHS ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 2000
Investment Banking                                 $     -       $2,179       $    -       $2,179
Capital Markets                                      4,660            -           29        4,689
Client Services                                        697           37          105          839
                                                  -----------------------------------------------
Total                                               $5,357       $2,216       $  134       $7,707
TWELVE MONTHS ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 1999
Investment Banking                                 $     -       $1,664       $    -       $1,664
Capital Markets                                      3,071            -           22        3,093
Client Services                                        523           18           42          583
                                                  -----------------------------------------------
Total                                               $3,594       $1,682      $    64       $5,340

</TABLE>

                                       40

<PAGE>



Lehman Brothers provides a full array of capital market products and advisory
services worldwide. Through the Company's banking, research, trading,
structuring and distribution capabilities in equity and fixed income products,
the Company continues to effectively build its client/customer business model.
This model focuses on "customer flow" activities, which represent a majority of
the Company's revenues. In addition to its customer flow activities, the Company
also takes proprietary positions, the success of which is dependent upon its
ability to anticipate economic and market trends. The Company believes its
customer flow orientation helps to mitigate its overall revenue volatility.

The Company, through its subsidiaries, is a market-maker in all major equity and
fixed income products in both the domestic and international markets. In order
to facilitate its trading activities, the Company is a member of all principal
securities and commodities exchanges in the United States and holds memberships
or associate memberships on several principal international securities and
commodities exchanges, including the London, Tokyo, Hong Kong, Frankfurt, Milan
and Paris stock exchanges. As part of its market-making customer flow
activities, the Company maintains inventory positions of varying amounts across
a broad range of financial instruments, which are marked-to-market on a daily
basis and, along with any proprietary trading positions, give rise to principal
transactions revenues.

Net revenues from the Company's market-making, sales and trading activities are
recorded as either principal transactions, commissions or net interest revenues
in the Consolidated Statement of Income, depending upon the method of execution,
financing and/or hedging related to specific inventory positions. The majority
of these Income Statement categories combine to comprise the Company's capital
market business. As such, the Company evaluates its capital markets activities
on an overall basis, combining principal transactions revenues, commissions and
net interest.

INVESTMENT BANKING

This segment's net revenues result from fees earned by the Company for
underwriting public and private offerings of fixed income and equity securities,
and advising clients on merger and acquisition activities and other services.
The division is structured into global industry groups--Communications & Media,
Consumer/Retailing, Financial Institutions, Financial Sponsors, Healthcare,
Industrial, Natural Resources, Power, Real Estate and Technology--where senior
bankers deliver industry knowledge and the resources to meet clients'
objectives. Specialized product groups within Mergers and Acquisitions, Equity
Capital Markets, Debt Capital Markets, Leveraged Finance and Private Placements
are partnered with global relationship managers in the industry groups to
provide comprehensive solutions for clients. The Firm's specialists in new
product development, tax and derivatives also are utilized to offer the
expertise to tailor specific structures for clients. During 2001, the Investment
Banking division increased its headcount by approximately 11%.

Investment Banking net revenues decreased 12% in 2001 to $1,925 million from
$2,179 million in 2000 and increased 31% in 2000 from $1,664 million in 1999.
Record fixed income underwriting activity in 2001 was more than offset by
decreases in equity origination and merger and acquisition activity.

INVESTMENT BANKING NET REVENUES
In millions                                 2001         2000         1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Debt Underwriting                         $  893       $  585       $  704
Equity Underwriting                          440          817          456
Merger and Acquisition Advisory              592          777          504
                                        ----------------------------------
                                          $1,925       $2,179       $1,664


o Record debt underwriting net revenues of $893 million, up 53% from 2000 on
  record lead-managed underwriting volume of $232 billion.

o Increases in debt underwriting net revenues was more than offset by declines
  in both equity underwriting and merger and acquisition fees due to
  industry-wide decreases in volume.

o Named "Investment Grade Bond House of the Year" by International Financing
  Review for the first time ever.

o Market share for U.S. merger and acquisition announcements increased during
  2001 to 9.2% from 8.4% for 2000.



                                       41
<PAGE>



Debt underwriting revenues increased 53% to a record $893 million, as issuers
continued to take advantage of lower interest rates to raise long-term debt and
replace short-term financing. Contributing to these results was an increase in
the Company's global market share for debt origination, which grew to 6.6% in
2001 from 5.8% for 2000, according to TFSD. In 2000, debt underwriting revenues
decreased 17% from $704 million in 1999.

Equity origination revenues were down 46% compared to a year ago, as
industry-wide equity underwriting declined significantly during the year.
However, the Company continued to grow its equity underwriting market share
during the year. The Company's global equity origination volume share increased
over 41% to 4.8% compared to 2000 as the value of lead-managed deals increased
to $15.9 billion, according to TFSD. Equity origination revenues increased 79%
in 2000 from $456 million in 1999.

Merger and acquisition advisory fees decreased 24% compared to last year's
record results as industry-wide volumes for completed deals decreased 33%,
according to TFSD. For the year, the Company improved its market share in U.S.
announced merger and acquisition transactions. Merger and acquisition advisory
fees increased 54% in 2000 from $504 million in 1999.

The increase in net revenues in Investment Banking in 2000 from 1999 reflected
market share gains in equity underwriting and record performance in merger and
acquisition advisory activities, which were offset by lower debt underwriting
revenues due to decreased volumes.

CAPITAL MARKETS

CAPITAL MARKETS NET REVENUES
In millions                            2001         2000         1999
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fixed Income                         $2,227       $2,060       $1,668
Equities                              1,797        2,629        1,425
                                    ---------------------------------
                                     $4,024       $4,689       $3,093


o Record fixed income net revenues were more than offset by a 32% decline in
  equities net revenues.

o U.S. fixed income research team ranked #1 and fixed income trading ranked #2
  by Institutional Investor.

o Both U.S. equity research and equity sales and trading ranked #5 by
  Institutional Investor in 2001, up from #8 in 2000.



This segment's net revenues reflect institutional flow activities and secondary
trading and financing activities related to fixed income and equity products.
These products include a wide range of cash, derivative, secured financing and
structured instruments. Capital Markets net revenues were $4,024 million for
2001, down 14% from 2000. In 2000, Capital Markets net revenues increased 52%
from $3,093 million in 1999. Record fixed income results in 2001 were more than
offset by lower equities revenues. Overall, the Company continued to have strong
institutional customer flow activity across a wide range of products. This
customer flow business provides the Company with a relatively stable form of
revenues as customers continually rebalance their portfolios across market
cycles with the full array of capital market products that are provided by the
Company.

In fixed income products, the Company remains a preeminent global market-maker
in numerous products, including U.S., European and Asian government securities,
money market products, corporate high grade and high yield securities, mortgage-
and asset-backed securities, preferred stock, municipal securities, bank loans,
foreign exchange, financing and derivative products. Net revenues from the fixed
income component of Capital Markets increased 8% to a record $2,227 million from
$2,060 million in 2000. The increase was principally driven by a strong level of
institutional customer flow activity as investors sought more defensive asset
classes in 2001. Central bank easings prompted lower interest rates, which led
to higher volumes across almost all fixed income products, particularly
residential mortgages which was driven by high levels of refinancings and new
home sales. Areas that benefited the most from the strength in institutional
customer flow included mortgages, high grade debt and municipals. In 2000, fixed
income net revenues increased 24% from $1,668 million in 1999.

In equities, the Company is one of the largest investment banks for U.S. and
pan-European listed trading volume, and the Company maintains a major presence
in over-the-counter U.S. stocks, all major European and Asian large
capitalization stocks, warrants, convertible debentures and preferred issues.


                                       42

<PAGE>



Reflecting the Company's growing client base, the Company continued to grow its
two major equity derivative product areas in 2001--the volatility business,
encompassing options-related products, and the portfolio business, specializing
in agency/risk baskets, index rebalancing and other structured products.

Net revenues from the equities component of Capital Markets decreased 32% to
$1,797 million from $2,629 million in 2000. Declining global equity markets
resulted in less equity origination activity, which in turn resulted in less
secondary activity. This factor, combined with a significant decrease in market
volatility levels, spread compression beginning in the second quarter of 2001
from NASDAQ decimalization, and declines in revenues from both private equity
and risk arbitrage activities led to the decrease in 2001 revenues. These
results were partially offset by stronger results in institutional customer flow
activity as the Company improved its secondary market share in both listed and
NASDAQ stocks. Record results in convertible securities also contributed to
strong institutional customer flow revenues, as investors turned to more
defensive products. In 2000, net revenues from the equities component of Capital
Markets increased 84% from $1,425 million in 1999.

The increase in net revenues in Capital Markets from 1999 to 2000 was primarily
due to significantly increased institutional customer flow activity across most
equity and fixed income products as the Company continued to invest in high
margin product areas.

CLIENT SERVICES

CLIENT SERVICES NET REVENUES
In millions                                2001         2000         1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Private Client                             $711         $795         $573
Private Equity                               76           44           10
                                        ---------------------------------
                                           $787         $839         $583


o Private Client's investment representatives increased to 475 brokers during
  2001.

o Private Equity assets under management grew 27% in 2001 to $5.6 billion from
  $4.4 billion in 2000.


Client Services net revenues reflect earnings from the Company's Private Client
and Private Equity businesses. Private Client net revenues reflect the Company's
high-net-worth retail customer flow activities as well as asset management fees,
where the Company strives to add value to its client base of high-net-worth
individuals and mid-sized institutional investors through innovative financial
solutions, global access to capital, research, global product depth and personal
service and advice.

Private Equity net revenues include the management and incentive fees earned in
the Company's role as general partner for thirty-three private equity banking
partnerships. The Company's objectives in Private Equity are threefold: first,
to provide a wide range of alternative investment products to clients; second,
to realize significant capital appreciation on these investments; and third, to
launch a diversified series of funds, thereby providing a more significant and
stable source of earnings to the Company. Private Equity currently operates in
three major asset classes: Merchant Banking, Real Estate and Venture Capital. As
of year-end 2001, Private Equity had over $5.6 billion of assets under
management.

Client Services net revenues were $787 million compared to $839 million for 2000
and $583 million for 1999. Excluding a special performance-based asset
management fee of $73 million in 2000 and a $20 million merchant banking
incentive fee in 2001, Client Services results were relatively flat, as the
Company's high-net-worth sales force continued to produce strong results despite
the weak equity market environment. The Company has been able to establish a
consistent flow of revenues from the high-net-worth sector, as these
high-net-worth investors actively rebalanced their portfolios to adjust for
changing market conditions.

Private Equity net revenues increased from 2000, primarily due to a $15 million
increase in management fees from new

PRIVATE EQUITY ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT

   [Graphic Omitted--bar graph showing: ]

   1999--$2.6 billion
   2000--$4.4 billion
   2001--$5.6 billion


                                       43

<PAGE>



funds sponsored by the Company and a $20 million incentive fee recognized from
an individual Merchant Banking investment through the Company's role as general
partner.


In 2000, Client Services' revenues increased 44% to a record $839 million
primarily due to record customer activity as the Company successfully increased
the headcount and productivity of its investment representatives. Also
contributing to the increase was the $73 million special performance-based asset
management fee referred to above.

GEOGRAPHIC DIVERSIFICATION

In fiscal 2001, the Company continued to strategically expand its international
franchise, with a particular focus in Europe. The Company believes this
expansion will enable it to benefit from the continued globalization of the
financial markets, driven by the growing interest in cross-border transactions,
client demand for global investment products and the continued evolution of the
capital markets across Europe. International net revenues represented
approximately 37% of total net revenues in 2001, compared with 42% in 2000, 41%
in 1999 and only 28% in 1997.

During the year, the Company continued to invest substantial resources in order
to expand its European franchise, increasing its headcount in the region by
approximately 17% after growing by approximately 40% in 2000. Overall, European
revenues decreased 18% versus 2000, as the region encountered the same weak
market conditions experienced in the United States.

The Company's Asia Pacific region also experienced difficult market conditions
in 2001, which resulted in a 37% decrease in the region's net revenues compared
to 2000.

NET REVENUE DIVERSITY BY GEOGRAPHIC REGION For the year ended 2001 [Graphic
Omitted--pie chart showing:]

U.S.                       63%

Europe                     29%     |
                                   |  37%
Asia Pacific and other      8%     |


o International net revenues represented approximately 37% of total net revenues
  in 2001, compared with only 28% in 1997.



NON-INTEREST EXPENSES

In millions
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Twelve months ended November 30                 2001         2000         1999
Compensation and benefits                     $3,437       $3,931       $2,707
Nonpersonnel                                   1,424        1,197        1,002
Special charge                                   127            -            -
                                            ----------------------------------
Total non-interest expenses                   $4,988       $5,128       $3,709
                                              --------------------------------
Compensation and benefits/Net revenues          51.0%        51.0%        50.7%


Non-interest expenses in 2001 totaled $4,988 million, down 3% from 2000's
non-interest expenses of $5,128 million, as a decrease in compensation and
benefits was partially offset by an increase in nonpersonnel expenses. 2001
total non-interest expenses included a special charge of $127 million related to
the events of September 11. Excluding the special charge, non-interest expenses
were down 5% from 2000. The decrease in non-interest expenses highlights the
Company's continued disciplined approach to expense management. This ongoing
focus on expenses is a key element of the Company's strategic objectives.



                                       44

<PAGE>



Compensation and benefits expense as a percentage of net revenues of 51.0%
remained consistent with the Company's level during 2000. Compensation and
benefits expense includes the cost of salaries, incentive compensation and
employee benefit plans as well as the amortization of deferred stock
compensation awards.

Nonpersonnel expenses increased 19% during the year, which was lower than the
26% increase in average headcount in 2001. Technology and communications
expenses increased significantly in 2001 due to the Company's continued
investment in technology and infrastructure. Brokerage and clearance fees rose
during 2001, as increased transaction volumes led to higher execution and
clearing costs. Occupancy costs also increased in 2001, to accommodate headcount
growth. Business development costs remained substantially unchanged during the
year, and professional fees and other expenses decreased during 2001, as the
Company focused on reducing discretionary items during the year.

During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a $127 million special
charge relating to the events of September 11. This charge reflects all costs
and asset write-offs associated with these events, net of related estimated
insurance recoveries. The Company is pursuing a claim with its insurance
carriers for the property damage, incremental costs and lost revenues from the
business interruption from these events. (Additional information about the
special charge can be found in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.)

In 2000, total non-interest expenses increased 38% from 1999. This increase was
driven by higher compensation costs as a result of increased revenues and by
investments in technology capabilities.

INCOME TAXES. The Company's 2001 income tax provision of $437 million
represented an effective tax rate of 25.0%. Excluding the impact of the special
charge, the effective tax rate for 2001 was 26.3%. In 2000 and 1999, income tax
provisions were $748 million and $457 million, respectively, resulting in
effective tax rates of 29.0% in 2000 and 28.0% in 1999. The decrease in the
effective tax rate in 2001 was primarily due to a greater impact of permanent
differences due to a decrease in the level of pretax income, an increase in
tax-exempt income and a higher level of income from foreign operations.
Additional information about the Company's income taxes can be found in Note 12
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



LIQUIDITY, FUNDING AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT Liquidity risk management is of critical importance to
the Company, providing a framework which seeks to ensure that the Company
maintains sufficient liquid financial resources to continually fund its balance
sheet and meet all of its funding obligations in all market environments. The
Company's liquidity framework has been structured so that even in a severe
liquidity event the balance sheet does not have to be reduced purely for
liquidity reasons (although we may choose to do so for risk reasons). This
allows the Company to continue to maintain its customer franchise and debt
ratings during a liquidity event.

The Company's liquidity management philosophy incorporates the following
principles:

o    Liquidity providers are credit and market sensitive. Consequently, firms
     must be in a state of constant liquidity readiness.

o    Firms should not rely on asset sales to generate cash or believe that they
     can increase unsecured borrowings or funding efficiencies in a liquidity
     crisis.

o    During a liquidity event, certain secured lenders may require higher
     quality collateral. Firms must therefore not overestimate the availability
     of secured financing, and must fully integrate their secured and unsecured
     funding strategies.

o    A firm's legal entity structure may constrain liquidity. Regulatory
     requirements can restrict the flow of funds between regulated and
     unregulated group entities, and this must be accounted for in liquidity
     planning.



                                       45

<PAGE>



The Company's Funding Framework incorporates these principles and mitigates
liquidity risk wherever possible. This Framework is comprised of four major
components:

1.  The Cash Capital Model--which evaluates the amount of long-term
    liabilities--with remaining maturities of over one year--that are required
    to fund the Company. The model requires that the following must be funded
    with cash capital:

   o  Secured funding "haircuts," to reflect the estimated value of cash that
      would be advanced to the Company by counterparties against available
      inventory.

   o  Fixed assets and goodwill.

   o  Operational cash at banks and unpledged assets independent of collateral
      quality; the Company assumes that it will not be able to operate with
      lower requirements in a stress environment than the Company currently
      operates with in a normal environment.

The Company operates with a surplus of cash capital sources over cash capital
uses. To ensure that the Company is always operating "within its means," the
businesses operate within strict cash capital limits. This limit culture has
been institutionalized, and this policy engages the entire Company in managing
liquidity.



2.  The Reliable Secured Funding Model ("RSFM")--which forecasts the reliable
    sources of overnight secured funding available to the Company.

The RSFM represents our assessment of the reliable secured funding capacity, by
asset class, that we would anticipate in a liquidity event. The Company pays
careful attention to validating this capacity through a periodic counterparty by
counterparty, product by product review, which draws upon the Company's
understanding of the financing franchise and experience.

In cases where a business has inventory at a level above its RSFM, the Company
requires the excess to be funded on a term basis with a maturity in excess of
three months. If this is not feasible, the Company will then provide for this in
its liquidity cushion--a cash amount with a remaining term in excess of 90 days.
The cost of maintaining the liquidity cushion is borne by the business and
encourages the development of secured funding capacity in line with balance
sheet growth.

The Company has increased the RSFM for certain asset classes through the use of
favorable legal entity structures, such as Lehman Brothers Bank (Thrift) and
Lehman Brothers Bankhaus. These entities operate in a deposit protected
environment and are therefore able to source low cost unsecured funds that are
insulated from a company-wide or market specific event, while providing reliable
funding for mortgage products and other loan assets.


                                       46


<PAGE>



3.  The Maximum Cumulative Outflow ("MCO")--which estimates the size of the
    added liquidity requirement necessary to fund contingent cash outflows
    expected from a stress environment.

The MCO model reflects our posture of constant liquidity readiness. On an
ongoing basis, the Company projects, for both regulated and unregulated
entities, the amount of cash we would have over the next three months, assuming
that we immediately experience a very severe liquidity stress environment. The
MCO assumptions, which presume a very severe liquidity stress environment,
include the following:

   o  The Company is temporarily unable to replace maturing commercial paper and
      long-term debt.

   o  Collateral posting requirements increase as counterparties call for
      additional collateral.

   o  Contingent commitments are drawn, as other liquidity-impacted institutions
      draw on their contractual facilities.

   o  The Company does not have to draw on its committed back-stop facilities.

   o  Secured funding consumes additional cash, as haircuts widen to reflect
      stress levels.

The Company's MCO standard is to operate in such a manner that even if a severe
liquidity event ensues, three months forward the Company retains a substantial
level of cash in both its regulated and unregulated subsidiaries.

4. The Contingency Funding Plan--which represents a detailed action plan to
manage a stress liquidity event within the Company.

The Company has developed a comprehensive Funding Action Plan to manage
liquidity risk and communicate effectively with creditors, investors and
customers during a funding crisis. The main focus of the plan is to detail how,
in practice, we would manage our liquidity in a real situation, using the three
components discussed above.

As a consequence of implementing its Funding Framework, the Company has
generally shifted to longer-term funding over the past several years. As a
result, the Company has reduced its reliance on short-term unsecured debt, which
represents only 3% of adjusted total assets and less than 12% of total debt.

o   Lehman Brothers has lowered its Short-Term Debt to Adjusted Total Assets and
    its Short-Term Debt to Total Debt ratios over the past five years to lessen
    the impact of short-term dislocations in the unsecured funding markets.



SHORT-TERM DEBT TO ADJUSTED TOTAL ASSETS

   [Graphic Omitted--bar graph showing: ]

   1997       7.2%
   1998       6.0%
   1999       4.2%
   2000       4.0%
   2001       3.0%

SHORT-TERM DEBT TO TOTAL DEBT

   [Graphic Omitted--bar graph showing: ]

   1997       27.6%
   1998       19.6%
   1999       15.1%
   2000       14.1%
   2001       11.3%



MANAGING LIQUIDITY, FUNDING AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Company's Finance
Committee is responsible for developing, implementing and enforcing the
liquidity, funding and capital policies. These policies include recommendations
for capital and balance sheet size, as well as the allocation of capital and
balance sheet to the business units. Through the establishment and enforcement
of capital and funding limits, the Company's Finance Committee seeks to ensure
compliance throughout the organization so that the Company is not exposed to
undue risk.



                                       47

<PAGE>


TOTAL CAPITAL

In millions
November 30                                    2001         2000         1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LONG-TERM DEBT
    Senior Notes                            $35,373      $32,106      $27,375
    Subordinated Indebtedness                 2,928        3,127        3,316
                                           ----------------------------------
                                             38,301       35,233       30,691
Preferred Securities                            710          860          710
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
    Preferred Equity                            700          700          688
    Common Equity                             7,759        7,081        5,595
                                           ----------------------------------
                                              8,459        7,781        6,283
                                           ----------------------------------
TOTAL CAPITAL                               $47,470      $43,874      $37,684


TOTAL CAPITAL

   [Graphic Omitted--bar graph showing: ]

   1999       $37.7 billion
   2000       $43.9 billion
   2001       $47.5 billion



TOTAL CAPITAL. The Company's Total Capital (defined as long-term debt, preferred
securities subject to mandatory redemption and stockholders' equity) increased
8% to $47.5 billion at November 30, 2001, compared to $43.9 billion at November
30, 2000, as the Company continued to strengthen its Balance Sheet. The increase
in Total Capital principally resulted from a net increase in long-term debt as
well as an increase in equity from the retention of earnings. At November 30,
1999, total capital was $37.7 billion.

As a result of the favorable interest rate and credit spread environment, the
Company issued $9.9 billion in long-term debt, which was $2.3 billion in excess
of its maturing debt. Long-term debt increased to $38.3 billion at November 30,
2001 from $35.2 billion at November 30, 2000 and $30.7 billion at November 30,
1999, with a weighted-average maturity of 3.8 years at November 30, 2001 and
November 30, 2000, and 3.7 years at November 30, 1999.

The Company operates in many regulated businesses that require various minimum
levels of capital. These businesses are also subject to regulatory requirements
that may restrict the free flow of funds to affiliates. Regulatory approval is
generally required for paying dividends in excess of certain established levels
and making advancements to affiliated companies. Additional information about
the Company's capital requirements can be found in Note 10 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

BACK-UP CREDIT FACILITIES. Holdings maintains a Revolving Credit Agreement (the
"Credit Agreement") with a syndicate of banks. Under the terms of the Credit
Agreement, the banks have committed to provide up to $1 billion for up to 364
days. Any loans outstanding on the commitment termination date may be extended
for up to an additional year at the option of Holdings. The Credit Agreement
contains covenants which require, among other things, that the Company maintain
specified levels of tangible net worth. During the second quarter of 2001, the
Company elected to reduce the committed amount under the Credit Agreement to $1
billion from $2 billion. The reduction reflects the Company's desire to utilize
its credit in forms that are more suitable to its needs.

In October 2001, the Company renegotiated its $1 billion Committed Securities
Repurchase Facility (the "Facility") for Lehman Brothers International (Europe)
("LBIE"), the Company's major operating entity in Europe. The Facility provides
secured multi-currency financing for a broad range of collateral types. Under
the terms of the Facility, the bank group will agree to provide funding for up
to one year on a secured basis. Any loans outstanding on the commitment
termination date may be extended for up to an additional year at the option of
LBIE. The Facility contains covenants that require, among other things, that
LBIE maintain specified levels of tangible net worth.


                                       48


<PAGE>



There are no borrowings outstanding under either the Credit Agreement or the
Facility. The Company may use the Credit Agreement and the Facility for general
corporate purposes from time to time. The Company has maintained compliance with
the applicable covenants for both the Credit Agreement and the Facility at all
times.

BALANCE SHEET. The Company's total assets increased to $248 billion at November
30, 2001 from $225 billion at November 30, 2000. The Company's adjusted total
assets, defined as total assets less the lower of securities purchased under
agreements to resell or securities sold under agreements to repurchase, were
$165 billion at November 30, 2001 compared to $143 billion at November 30, 2000.
The Company believes adjusted total assets is a more effective measure of
evaluating balance sheet usage when comparing companies in the securities
industry. The increase in adjusted total assets primarily reflects higher levels
of fixed income securities, particularly mortgages and corporate debt,
associated with increased customer flow activities within the Company's Capital
Markets business.

The Company's Balance Sheet consists primarily of cash and cash equivalents,
securities and other financial instruments owned, and collateralized short-term
financing agreements. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company
with flexibility in financing and managing its business. The majority of these
assets are funded on a secured basis through collateralized short-term financing
agreements.

FINANCIAL LEVERAGE Balance sheet leverage ratios are one measure used to
evaluate the capital adequacy of a company. Leverage ratios are commonly
calculated using either total assets or adjusted total assets divided by total
stockholders' equity and preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption.
The Company believes that the adjusted leverage ratio is a more effective
measure of financial risk when comparing companies in the securities industry.
The Company's leverage ratios based on adjusted total assets were 17.9x and
16.6x as of November 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Consistent with
maintaining a single A credit rating, the Company targets an adjusted leverage
ratio of under 20.0x. The Company continues to operate below this level. Due to
the nature of the Company's sales and trading activities, the overall size of
the Company's balance sheet fluctuates from time to time and, at specific points
in time, may be higher than the fiscal year-end or quarter-end amounts.

CREDIT RATINGS The Company, like other companies in the securities industry,
relies on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day
operations. The Company's access to and cost of funding is generally dependent
upon its short- and long-term debt ratings.

On June 20, 2001, Fitch IBCA, Inc. upgraded Holdings long-term debt from A to
A+. Fitch also upgraded LBI's senior debt from A to A+ and its subordinated debt
from A- to A. As of November 30, 2001 the short- and long-term debt ratings of
Holdings and LBI were as follows:

                                          HOLDINGS                 LBI
                                      ----------------      --------------------
                                      Short-    Long-       Short-     Long-
                                        term     term         term     term**
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fitch IBCA, Inc.                         F-1       A+          F-1     A+/A
Moody's                                  P-1       A2          P-1     A1*/A2
Standard & Poor's Corp.                  A-1        A          A-1     A+*/A

  * Provisional ratings on shelf registration
 ** Senior/subordinated


HIGH YIELD SECURITIES The Company underwrites, trades, invests and makes markets
in high yield corporate debt securities. The Company also syndicates, trades and
invests in loans to below investment grade-rated companies. For purposes of this
discussion, high yield debt instruments are defined as securities or loans to
companies rated BB+ or lower, or equivalent ratings by recognized credit rating
agencies, as well as non-rated securities or loans which, in the opinion of
management, are non-investment grade. Non-investment grade securities generally
involve greater risks than investment grade securities, due to the issuer's
creditworthiness and the liquidity of the market for such securities. In
addition, these issuers have relatively higher levels of indebtedness, resulting
in an increased sensitivity to adverse economic conditions. The Company
recognizes these risks and aims to reduce market and credit risk through the
diversification of its products and counterparties. High yield debt instruments
are carried at fair value, and unrealized gains or losses for these securities
are recognized in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Income. Such
instruments at November 30, 2001 and 2000 included long positions with an
aggregate market value of approximately $3.5 billion for both years, and short
positions with an aggregate market value of approximately $1,007 million



                                       49

<PAGE>



and $745 million, respectively. The Company mitigates its aggregate and
single-issuer net exposure through the use of derivatives, sole-recourse
securitization financing, and other financial instruments.

PRIVATE EQUITY. The Company has investments in thirty-three private
equity-related partnerships, for which the Company acts as general partner, as
well as related direct investments. At November 30, 2001 and 2000, the Company's
investment in these partnerships totaled $229 million and $149 million,
respectively, and direct investments totaled $597 million and $678 million,
respectively. The Company's policy is to carry its investments, including the
appreciation of its general partnership interests, at fair value based upon the
Company's assessment of the underlying investments. Additional information about
the Company's private equity activities, including related commitments, can be
found in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

SUMMARY OF CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

As of November 30, 2001 and 2000, the Company was contingently liable for $1.1
billion and $2.1 billion, respectively, of letters of credit, primarily used to
provide collateral for securities and commodities borrowed and to satisfy margin
deposits at option and commodity exchanges, and other guarantees.

In connection with its financing activities, the Company had outstanding
commitments under certain lending arrangements of approximately $2.1 billion and
$3.2 billion, at November 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. These commitments
require borrowers to provide acceptable collateral, as defined in the
agreements, when amounts are drawn under the lending facilities. Advances made
under the above lending arrangements are typically at variable interest rates
and generally provide for over-collateralization based upon the borrowers'
creditworthiness. In addition, at November 30, 2001 the Company had commitments
to enter into forward starting secured resale and repurchase agreements of $52.3
billion and $26.5 billion, respectively, as compared to $51.9 billion and $17.0
billion, respectively, at November 30, 2000.

In addition, the Company, through its high grade and high yield sales, trading
and underwriting activities, makes commitments to extend credit in loan
syndication transactions. The Company utilizes various hedging and funding
strategies to actively manage its market, credit and liquidity exposures on
these commitments. In addition, total commitments are not indicative of actual
risk or funding requirements, as the commitments may not be drawn or fully
utilized. These commitments and any related draw downs of these facilities
typically have fixed maturity dates and are contingent upon certain
representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the
borrower.

At November 30, 2001 and 2000, the Company had net lending commitments to
investment grade borrowers of $4.1 billion (gross commitments of $5.9 billion
less $1.8 billion of associated hedges) and $4.3 billion ($4.4 billion of gross
commitments and $0.1 billion of associated hedges), respectively. Lending
commitments to non-investment grade borrowers totaled $1.4 billion and $1.3
billion at November 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In addition, at November
30, 2001 and 2000, the Company has pre-arranged funding facilities with third
party lenders of $4.9 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, available to it to
fund draw downs against these commitments. These funding facilities contain
limits for certain concentrations of counterparty, industry or credit ratings of
the underlying loans.

As of November 30, 2001 and 2000, the Company had commitments to invest up to
$555 million and $357 million, respectively, directly and through partnerships
in private equity related investments. These commitments will be funded as
required through the end of the respective investment periods, principally
expiring in 2004.


                                       50


<PAGE>



Aggregate contractual obligations and other commitments as of November 30, 2001
by maturity are as follows:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                     Total        AMOUNT OF COMMITMENT EXPIRATION PER PERIOD
                                                               -----------------------------------------------
In millions                                    Contractual    Less than          1-3          4-5     After 5
November 30, 2001                                   Amount       1 Year        Years        Years       Years
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>           <C>           <C>          <C>         <C>


Lending commitments:
    High grade                                     $ 4,050      $ 2,720       $  837       $  493         $  -
    High yield                                       1,432          189          668          329          246
    Secured lending transactions, including forward
     starting resale and repurchase agreements      80,863       35,427       19,169        7,056       19,211
Standby letters of credit                            1,128            -        1,128            -            -
Private equity investments                             555            -          543           12            -
Operating lease obligations                          4,096          138          464          353        3,141
Long-term debt maturities                           38,301        8,534       15,247        7,559        6,961
Short-term debt maturities                           4,865        4,865            -            -            -

</TABLE>


For additional information on contractual obligations see Note 16 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.


OFF-BALANCE SHEET FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND DERIVATIVES

OVERVIEW. Derivatives are financial instruments, which include swaps, options,
futures, forwards and warrants, whose value is based upon an underlying asset
(e.g., treasury bond), index (e.g., S&P 500) or reference rate (e.g., LIBOR). A
derivative contract may be traded on an exchange or negotiated in the
over-the-counter markets. Exchange-traded derivatives are standardized and
include futures, warrants and certain option contracts listed on an exchange.
Over-the-counter ("OTC") derivative contracts are individually negotiated
between contracting parties and include forwards, swaps and certain options,
including caps, collars and floors. The use of derivative financial instruments
has expanded significantly over the past decade. A primary reason for this
expansion is that derivatives provide a cost-effective alternative for managing
market risk. In this regard, derivative contracts provide a reduced funding
alternative for managing market risk, since derivatives are based upon notional
amounts, which are generally not exchanged, but rather are used merely as a
basis for exchanging cash flows during the duration of the contract. Derivatives
are also utilized extensively as highly effective tools that enable users to
adjust risk profiles, such as interest rate, currency, or other market risks,
since OTC derivative instruments can be tailored to meet individual client
needs. Additionally, derivatives provide users with access to market risk
management tools that are often unavailable in traditional cash instruments.
Derivatives can also be used to take proprietary trading positions.

Derivatives are subject to various risks similar to non-derivative financial
instruments including market, credit and operational risk. Market risk is the
potential for a financial loss due to changes in the value of derivative
financial instruments due to market changes, including changes in interest
rates, foreign exchange rates and equity and commodity prices. Credit risk
results from the possibility that a counterparty to a derivative transaction may
fail to perform according to the terms of the contract. Therefore, the Company's
exposure to credit risk is represented by its net receivable from derivative
counterparties, after consideration of collateral. Operational risk is the
possibility of financial loss resulting from a deficiency in the Company's
systems for executing derivative transactions. In addition to these risks,
counterparties to derivative financial instruments may also be exposed to legal
risks related to derivative activities, including the possibility that a
transaction may be unenforceable under applicable law. The risks of derivatives
should not be viewed in isolation but rather should be considered on an
aggregate basis along with the Company's other trading-related activities.



                                       51

<PAGE>



As derivative products have continued to expand in volume, so has market
participation and competition. As a result, additional liquidity has been added
into the markets for conventional derivative products, such as interest rate
swaps. Competition has also contributed to the development of more complex
products structured for specific clients. It is this rapid growth and complexity
of certain derivative products which has led to the perception, by some, that
derivative products are unduly risky to users and the financial markets.

In order to remove the public perception that derivatives may be unduly risky
and to ensure ongoing liquidity of derivatives in the marketplace, the Company
supports the efforts of the regulators in striving for enhanced risk management
disclosures which consider the effects of both derivative products and cash
instruments. In addition, the Company supports the activities of regulators that
are designed to ensure that users of derivatives are fully aware of the nature
of risks inherent within derivative transactions. As evidence of this support,
the Company has been actively involved with the various regulatory and
accounting authorities in the development of additional enhanced reporting
requirements related to derivatives.

The Company strongly believes that derivatives provide significant value to the
financial markets and is committed to providing its clients with innovative
products to meet their financial needs.

LEHMAN BROTHERS' USE OF DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS. In the normal course of
business, the Company enters into derivative transactions both in a trading
capacity and as an end-user. As an end-user, the Company utilizes derivative
products to adjust the interest rate nature of its funding sources from fixed to
floating interest rates, and to change the index upon which floating interest
rates are based (e.g., Prime to LIBOR) (collectively, "End-User Derivative
Activities"). For a further discussion of the Company's End-User Derivative
Activities, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Company utilizes derivative products in a trading capacity both as a dealer,
to satisfy the financial needs of its clients, and in each of its trading
businesses (collectively, "Trading-Related Derivative Activities"). The
Company's use of derivative products in its trading businesses is combined with
cash instruments to allow for the execution of various trading strategies.

The Company conducts its derivative activities through a number of wholly-owned
subsidiaries. The Company's fixed income derivative products business is
conducted through its subsidiary, Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc., and
separately capitalized "AAA" rated subsidiaries, Lehman Brothers Financial
Products Inc. and Lehman Brothers Derivative Products Inc. The Company's equity
derivative product business is conducted through Lehman Brothers Finance S.A. In
addition, as a global investment bank, the Company is also a market-maker in a
number of foreign currencies and actively trades in the global commodity
markets. Counterparties to the Company's derivative product transactions are
primarily financial intermediaries (U.S. and foreign banks), securities firms,
corporations, governments and their agencies, finance companies, insurance
companies, investment companies and pension funds.

The Company manages the risks associated with derivatives on an aggregate basis,
along with the risks associated with its non-derivative trading and
market-making activities in cash instruments, as part of its firmwide risk
management policies. The Company utilizes industry standard derivative contracts
whenever appropriate. These contracts may contain provisions requiring the
posting of additional collateral by the Company in certain events, including a
downgrade in the Company's credit rating. The Company believes that its funding
framework incorporates all reasonably likely collateral requirements related to
these provisions. For a further discussion of the Company's risk management
policies, refer to the discussion which follows. For a discussion of the
Company's liquidity management policies see page 45.

See the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the
Company's accounting policies and further discussion of the Company's
Trading-Related Derivative Activities.


                                       52


<PAGE>

RISK MANAGEMENT

As a leading global investment banking company, risk is an inherent part of the
Company's businesses. Global markets, by their nature, are prone to uncertainty
and subject participants to a variety of risks. The Company has developed
policies and procedures to identify, measure and monitor each of the risks
involved in its trading, brokerage and investment banking activities on a global
basis. The principal risks of Lehman Brothers are market, credit, liquidity,
legal and operational risks. Risk Management is considered to be of paramount
importance in the Company's day-to-day operations. Consequently, the Company
devotes significant resources across all of its worldwide trading operations to
the measurement, management and analysis of risk, including investments in
personnel and technology.

The Company seeks to reduce risk through the diversification of its businesses,
counterparties and activities in geographic regions. The Company accomplishes
this objective by allocating the usage of capital to each of its businesses,
establishing trading limits for individual products and traders, and setting
credit limits for individual counterparties, including regional concentrations.
The Company seeks to achieve adequate returns from each of its businesses
commensurate with the risks that they assume.

Overall risk management policy is established by a Risk Management Committee
(the "Committee") comprised of the Chief Executive Officer, the Global Risk
Manager, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Administrative Officer and the
Heads of Capital Markets and Investment Banking. The Committee brings together
senior management with the sole intent of discussing risk-related issues and
provides an effective forum for managing risk at the highest levels within the
Company. The Committee meets on a weekly basis, or more frequently if required,
to discuss, among other matters, significant market exposures, concentrations of
positions (e.g., counterparty, market risk), potential new transactions or
positions and risk limit exceptions.

The Global Risk Management Group (the "Group") supports the Committee, but
remains independent of the trading areas and reports directly to the Chief
Executive Officer. The Group combines two departments, credit risk management
and market risk management, into one unit. This combination facilitates the
analysis of counterparty credit and market risk exposures, while leveraging
personnel and information technology resources in a cost-efficient manner. The
Group maintains staff in each of the Company's regional trading centers and has
daily contact with trading staff at all levels within the Company. These
discussions include a review of trading positions and risk exposures.

CREDIT RISK. Credit risk represents the possibility that a counterparty will be
unable to honor its contractual obligations to the Company. Credit risk
management is therefore an integral component of the Company's overall risk
management framework. The Credit Risk Management Department ("CRM Department")
has global responsibility for implementing the Company's overall credit risk
management framework.

The CRM Department manages the credit exposure related to trading activities by
giving initial credit approval for counterparties, establishing credit limits by
counterparty, country and industry group, and by requiring collateral in
appropriate circumstances. In addition, the CRM Department strives to ensure
that master netting agreements are obtained whenever possible. The CRM
Department also considers the duration of transactions in making its credit
decisions, along with the potential credit exposure for complex derivative
transactions. The CRM Department is responsible for the continuous monitoring
and review of counterparty credit exposure and creditworthiness and recommending
valuation adjustments, where appropriate. Credit limits are reviewed
periodically to ensure that they remain appropriate in light of market events or
the counterparty's financial condition.

MARKET RISK. Market risk represents the potential change in value of a portfolio
of financial instruments due to changes in market rates, prices and
volatilities. Market risk management also is an essential component of the
Company's overall risk management framework. The Market Risk Management
Department ("MRM Department") has global responsibility for implementing the
Company's overall market risk management framework. It is responsible for the
preparation and dissemination of risk reports, developing and implementing the
firmwide Risk Management Guidelines, and evaluating adherence to these
guidelines. These guidelines provide a clear framework for risk management
decision making. To that end,


                                       53


<PAGE>

the MRM Department identifies and quantifies risk exposures, develops limits,
and reports and monitors these risks with respect to the approved limits. The
identification of material market risks inherent in positions includes, but is
not limited to, interest rate, equity and foreign exchange risk exposures. In
addition to these risks, the MRM Department also evaluates liquidity risks,
credit and sovereign concentrations.

The MRM Department utilizes qualitative as well as quantitative information in
managing trading risk, believing that a combination of the two approaches
results in a more robust and complete approach to the management of trading
risk. Quantitative information is developed from a variety of risk methodologies
based upon established statistical principles. To ensure high standards of
qualitative analysis, the MRM Department has retained seasoned risk managers
with the requisite experience and academic and professional credentials.

Market risk is present in cash products, derivatives and contingent claim
structures that exhibit linear as well as non-linear profit and loss
sensitivity. The Company's exposure to market risk varies in accordance with the
volume of client-driven market-making transactions, the size of the Company's
proprietary and arbitrage positions, and the volatility of financial instruments
traded. The Company seeks to mitigate, whenever possible, excess market risk
exposures through the use of futures and option contracts and offsetting cash
market instruments.

The Company participates globally in interest rate, equity and foreign exchange
markets. The Company's Fixed Income division has a broadly diversified market
presence in U.S. and foreign government bond trading, emerging market
securities, corporate debt (investment and non-investment grade), money market
instruments, mortgages and mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities,
municipal bonds and interest rate derivatives. The Company's Equities division
facilitates domestic and foreign trading in equity instruments, indices and
related derivatives. The Company's foreign exchange businesses are involved in
trading currencies on a spot and forward basis as well as through derivative
products and contracts.

The Company incurs short-term interest rate risk when facilitating the orderly
flow of customer transactions through the maintenance of government and
high-grade corporate bond inventories. Market-making in high yield instruments
exposes the Company to additional risk due to potential variations in credit
spreads. Trading in international markets exposes the Company to spread risk
between the term structure of interest rates in different countries. Mortgages
and mortgage-related securities are subject to prepayment risk and changes in
the level of interest rates. Trading in derivatives and structured products
exposes the Company to changes in the level and volatility of interest rates.
The Company actively manages interest rate risk through the use of interest rate
futures, options, swaps, forwards and offsetting cash market instruments.
Inventory holdings, concentrations and agings are monitored closely and used by
management to selectively hedge or liquidate undesirable exposures.

The Company is a significant intermediary in the global equity markets through
its market-making in U.S. and non-U.S. equity securities, including common
stock, convertible debt, exchange-traded and OTC equity options, equity swaps
and warrants. These activities expose the Company to market risk as a result of
price and volatility changes in its equity inventory. Inventory holdings are
also subject to market risk resulting from concentrations and liquidity that may
adversely impact market valuation. Equity market risk is actively managed
through the use of index futures, exchange-traded and OTC options, swaps and
cash instruments.

The Company enters into foreign exchange transactions in order to facilitate the
purchase and sale of non-dollar instruments, including equity and interest rate
securities. The Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk on its holdings of
non-dollar assets and liabilities. The Company is active in many foreign
exchange markets and has exposure to the euro, Japanese yen, British pound,
Swiss franc and Canadian dollar, as well as a variety of developed and emerging
market currencies. The Company hedges its risk exposures primarily through the
use of currency forwards, swaps, futures and options.

VALUE-AT-RISK. For purposes of Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") risk
disclosure requirements, the Company discloses an entity-wide value-at-risk for
virtually all of its trading activities. In general, the Company's value-at-risk
measures potential loss of revenues at a given confidence level over a specified
time horizon. Value-at-risk over a one-day holding period measured at a 95%
confidence level implies that the potential loss of daily trading revenue will
be at least as large as the value-at-risk amount on one out of every 20 trading
days.

                                       54

<PAGE>



The Company's methodology estimates a reporting day value-at-risk using actual
daily trading revenues over the previous 250 trading days. This estimate is
measured as the loss, relative to the median daily trading revenue. The Company
also estimates an average value-at-risk measure over 250 rolling reporting days,
thus looking back a total of 500 trading days.

The following table sets forth the daily value-at-risk for each component of
market risk as well as total value-at-risk:

MARKET RISK

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                   As of                   As of               Year-Ended November 30, 2001
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In millions            November 30, 2001       November 30, 2000               Average       High        Low
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                <C>                     <C>                   <C>        <C>        <C>

Interest rate risk                 $14.6                   $12.6                 $12.2      $15.1      $10.3
Equity price risk                   15.1                    15.1                  15.9       17.0       14.5
Foreign exchange risk                1.9                     1.5                   1.8        1.9        1.5
Diversification benefit             (8.3)                   (5.5)                 (6.1)      (8.9)      (3.9)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Company                      $23.3                   $23.7                 $23.8      $25.1      $22.4

</TABLE>


The average, high and low value-at-risk for the year-ended November 30, 2000
were $20.8 million, $23.7 million and $18.4 million, respectively.

Value-at-risk is one measure of potential loss in trading revenues that may
result from adverse market movements over a specified period of time with a
selected likelihood of occurrence. As with all measures of value-at-risk, the
Company's estimate has substantial limitations due to its reliance on historical
performance, which is not necessarily a predictor of the future. Consequently,
this value-at-risk estimate is only one of a number of tools the Company
utilizes in its daily risk management activities.

TRADING NET REVENUES DISTRIBUTION. Substantially all of the Company's inventory
positions are marked-to-market on a daily basis and changes are recorded in net
revenues. The following chart sets forth the frequency distribution for
substantially all of the Company's trading net revenues on a weekly basis for
the years-ended November 30, 2001 and 2000:

TRADING NET REVENUES DISTRIBUTION FOR 2001 AND 2000

 [Graphic Omitted--Bar graph showing: ]

 2001  Less than $0               2 weeks
              $0-50     million   9 weeks
              $50-100   million  18 weeks
              $100-150  million  18 weeks
              $150-200  million   5 weeks
              $200+     million   0 weeks


 2000  Less than $0               0 weeks
              $0-50     million   5 weeks
              $50-100   million  26 weeks
              $100-150  million  17 weeks
              $150-200  million   3 weeks
              $200+     million   1 weeks

    Average weekly trading revenues for 2001 and 2000 were approximately $90
million and $100 million, respectively.



As discussed throughout Management's Discussion and Analysis, the Company seeks
to reduce risk through the diversification of its businesses and a focus on
customer flow activities. This diversification and focus, combined with the
Company's risk management controls and processes, help to mitigate the net
revenue volatility inherent in the Company's trading activities. Although
historical performance is not necessarily indicative of future performance, the
Company believes its focus on business diversification and customer flow
activities should continue to reduce the volatility of future net trading
revenues.



                                       55

<PAGE>

SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The Company's financial statements are prepared in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles many of which require the use of management
estimates and assumptions. Management believes that the estimates utilized in
preparing its financial statements are reasonable and prudent. Actual results
could differ from these estimates.

FAIR VALUE. The Company records its inventory positions including Securities and
Other Financial Instruments Owned and Securities Sold but not yet Purchased at
fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in Principal transactions
in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Market value is generally based on
listed prices. If listed market prices are not available, or if liquidating the
Company's position is reasonably expected to affect market prices, fair value is
either determined based on internal valuation pricing models which take into
account time value and volatility factors underlying the financial instruments,
or management's estimate of the amounts that could be realized under current
market conditions, assuming an orderly liquidation over a reasonable period of
time.

TRANSFERS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS. The Company accounts for the transfer of
financial assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
("SFAS") No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
and Extinguishments of Liabilities--a replacement of FASB No. 125" ("SFAS No.
140"). This statement requires that the transfer of financial assets be
accounted for as a sale when control over the asset has been relinquished.
Control is deemed to be relinquished when the following conditions are met: i.)
the assets have been isolated from the transferor (even in bankruptcy or other
receivership), ii.) the transferee has the right to pledge or exchange the
assets received and iii.) the transferor has not maintained effective control
over the transferred assets. The Company is a market leader in mortgage- and
asset-backed securitizations and other structured financing arrangements. In
connection with these activities, the Company utilizes special purposes entities
principally for (but not limited to) the securitization of commercial and
residential mortgages, home equity loans, government and corporate bonds, and
lease and trade receivables. The Company derecognizes financial assets
transferred in securitizations provided that the Company has relinquished
control over such assets.

The Company may retain an interest in the financial assets it securitizes
("Retained Interests") which may include assets in the form of residual
interests in the special purpose entities established to facilitate the
securitization. Any Retained Interests are included in Securities and Other
Financial Instruments Owned within the Company's Statement of Financial
Condition. The Company records its Securities and Other Financial Instruments
Owned, including Retained Interests, at fair value with changes in fair value
reported in earnings.

For additional information on the Company's significant accounting policies see
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                       56


<PAGE>

NEW ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS

Effective December 1, 2000, the Company adopted SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended by SFAS No. 138,
"Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities"
(collectively, "SFAS 133"), which requires that all derivative instruments be
reported on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition at fair value.
SFAS 133 changed the Company's accounting methodology applied to its end-user
derivative activities, however, the adoption of SFAS 133 had an immaterial
effect on the Company as the majority of the Company's derivatives are trading
related and were already recorded on a fair value basis.

In addition, the Company adopted SFAS No. 140, which carries over the
fundamental control premise of SFAS 125, that requires an entity to recognize
only assets it controls and derecognize assets only when control has been
surrendered.

SFAS 140 also changed the accounting for collateral. SFAS 140 no longer requires
entities to recognize controlled collateral as an asset on the balance sheet.
Rather, SFAS 140 requires entities to separately classify financial assets owned
and pledged. The adoption of SFAS 140 did not have a material impact to the
Company's financial position or results of operations.

In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No.
141, "Business Combinations" and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets." SFAS 141 requires all business combinations initiated after June 30,
2001 to be accounted for using the purchase method. Under SFAS 142, intangible
assets with indefinite lives and goodwill will no longer be required to be
amortized. Instead, these assets will be evaluated annually for impairment. The
Company will adopt the provisions of SFAS 142 at the beginning of fiscal year
2002 and does not expect the adoption to have a material impact to the Company's
financial position or its results of operations.

EFFECTS OF INFLATION

Because the Company's assets are, to a large extent, liquid in nature, they are
not significantly affected by inflation. However, the rate of inflation affects
the Company's expenses, such as employee compensation, office space leasing
costs and communications charges, which may not be readily recoverable in the
price of services offered by the Company. To the extent inflation results in
rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets,
it may adversely affect the Company's financial position and results of
operations in certain businesses.


                                       57


<PAGE>

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS OF
LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated statement of financial condition
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Subsidiaries (the "Company") as of November
30, 2001 and 2000, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in
stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended November 30, 2001. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and Subsidiaries at November 30, 2001 and 2000, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended November 30, 2001, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.



Ernst & Young LLP

New York, New York

January 4, 2002



                                       58

<PAGE>



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


In millions, except per share data
Twelve months ended November 30                                    2001         2000         1999
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                             <C>          <C>          <C>

REVENUES
Principal transactions                                          $ 2,779      $ 3,713      $ 2,341
Investment banking                                                2,000        2,216        1,682
Commissions                                                       1,091          944          651
Interest and dividends                                           16,470       19,440       14,251
Other                                                                52          134           64
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total revenues                                               22,392       26,447       18,989
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest expense                                                 15,656       18,740       13,649
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net revenues                                                  6,736        7,707        5,340
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NON-INTEREST EXPENSES
Compensation and benefits                                         3,437        3,931        2,707
Technology and communications                                       501          341          327
Brokerage and clearance                                             308          264          232
Occupancy                                                           198          135          116
Business development                                                183          182          122
Professional fees                                                   152          184          115
Other                                                                82           91           90
Special charge                                                      127            -            -
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total non-interest expenses                                   4,988        5,128        3,709
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before taxes and dividends on trust preferred securities   1,748        2,579        1,631
    Provision for income taxes                                      437          748          457
    Dividends on trust preferred securities                          56           56           42
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                                                      $ 1,255      $ 1,775      $ 1,132
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income applicable to common stock                           $ 1,161      $ 1,679      $ 1,037
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings per common share
    Basic                                                        $ 4.77       $ 6.89       $ 4.27
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Diluted                                                      $ 4.38       $ 6.38       $ 4.08


</TABLE>


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                                       59

<PAGE>

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

In millions
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
November 30                                                                                  2001         2000
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                      <C>          <C>

ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                 $ 2,561      $ 5,160
Cash and securities segregated and on deposit for regulatory and other purposes             3,289        2,434
Securities and other financial instruments owned:
    Mortgages and mortgage-backed                                                          33,210       24,670
    Governments and agencies                                                               24,101       27,381
    Derivatives and other contractual agreements                                           11,555        9,583
    Corporate debt and other                                                               10,918       16,098
    Corporate equities                                                                      8,302       24,042
    Certificates of deposit and other money market instruments                              2,759        3,433
                                                                                            ------------------
          Subtotal                                                                         90,845      105,207
    Securities owned pledged as collateral                                                 28,517            -
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                          119,362      105,207
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Collateralized short-term agreements:
    Securities purchased under agreements to resell                                        83,278       81,242
    Securities borrowed                                                                    17,994       17,618
Receivables:
    Brokers, dealers and clearing organizations                                             3,455        1,662
    Customers                                                                              12,123        7,585
    Others                                                                                  1,479        1,135
Property, equipment and leasehold improvements
    (net of accumulated depreciation and amortization of  $424 in 2001
    and $855 in 2000)                                                                       1,495          671
Other assets                                                                                2,613        1,826
Excess of cost over fair value of net assets acquired (net of accumulated
    amortization of $151 in 2001 and $138 in 2000)                                            167          180
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total assets                                                                         $247,816     $224,720
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


</TABLE>


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                       60

<PAGE>


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION (CONTINUED)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

In millions, except per share data
November 30                                                                     2001         2000
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                         <C>          <C>

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Commercial paper and short-term debt                                         $ 4,865      $ 5,800
Securities and other financial instruments sold but not yet purchased:
    Governments and agencies                                                  25,547       14,998
    Derivatives and other contractual agreements                              10,324        8,568
    Corporate equities                                                         8,977        6,623
    Corporate debt and other                                                   6,482        5,096
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                              51,330       35,285
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Collateralized short-term financing:
    Securities sold under agreements to repurchase                           105,079      110,225
    Securities loaned                                                         12,541        7,242
Payables:
    Brokers, dealers and clearing organizations                                2,805        1,922
    Customers                                                                 13,831       11,637
Accrued liabilities and other payables                                         9,895        8,735
Long-term debt:
    Senior notes                                                              35,373       32,106
    Subordinated indebtedness                                                  2,928        3,127
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total liabilities                                                        238,647      216,079
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Commitments and contingencies
Preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption                             710          860
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Preferred stock                                                                  700          700
Common stock, $0.10 par value;
    Shares authorized: 600,000,000 in 2001 and 300,000,000 in 2000;
    Shares issued: 256,178,907 in 2001 and 251,629,126 in 2000;
    Shares outstanding: 237,534,091 in 2001 and 236,395,332 in 2000               25           25
Additional paid-in capital                                                     3,562        3,589
Accumulated other comprehensive income (net of tax)                             (10)          (8)
Retained earnings                                                              4,798        3,713
Other stockholders' equity, net                                                  746          597
Common stock in treasury, at cost: 18,644,816 shares in 2001 and
    15,233,794 shares in 2000                                                 (1,362)        (835)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Total stockholders' equity                                             8,459        7,781
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Total liabilities and stockholders' equity                          $247,816     $224,720
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                     61

<PAGE>

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

In millions
Twelve months ended November 30                                    2001         2000         1999
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                             <C>          <C>          <C>

PREFERRED STOCK
5% Cumulative Convertible Voting, Series A:
    Beginning balance                                                                      $    1
    Series A exchanged for Series B                                                            (1)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ending balance
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5% Cumulative Convertible Voting, Series B:
    Beginning balance                                                         $  238          457
    Series A exchanged for Series B                                                             1
    Shares subject to redemption                                                (150)
    Shares repurchased                                                           (88)        (220)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Ending balance                                                                            238
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5.94% Cumulative, Series C:
    Beginning balance                                             $ 250          250          250
    Shares issued
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ending balance                                                      250          250          250
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5.67% Cumulative, Series D:
    Beginning balance                                               200          200          200
    Shares issued
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ending balance                                                      200          200          200
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
7.115% Cumulative, Series E:
    Beginning balance                                               250
    Shares issued                                                                250
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ending balance                                                      250          250
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Redeemable Voting:
    Beginning and ending balance
Total Preferred Stock, ending balance                               700          700          688
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMON STOCK(1)                                                      25           25           25
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ADDITIONAL PAID-IN CAPITAL(1)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Beginning balance                                             3,589        3,374        3,521
    RSUs exchanged for Common Stock                                 (13)         (54)         (63)
    Employee stock-based awards                                      53          101            9
    Shares issued to RSU Trust                                     (628)        (210)        (181)
    Tax benefits from the issuance of stock-based awards            549          373           90
    Other, net                                                       12            5           (2)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ending balance                                                   $3,562       $3,589       $3,374
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>


(1) Amounts have been retroactively adjusted to give effect for the two-for-one
    common stock split, effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend, which
    became effective on October 20, 2000.

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                       62

<PAGE>

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

In millions
Twelve months ended November 30                                    2001         2000         1999
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                              <C>          <C>          <C>

ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
    Beginning balance                                             $  (8)      $   (2)       $  15
    Translation adjustment, net(2)                                   (2)          (6)         (17)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ending balance                                                      (10)          (8)          (2)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RETAINED EARNINGS
    Beginning balance                                             3,713        2,094        1,105
    Net income                                                    1,255        1,775        1,132
    Dividends declared:
    5% Cumulative Convertible Voting
        Series A and B Preferred Stock                               (1)          (9)         (20)
    5.94% Cumulative, Series C Preferred Stock                      (15)         (15)         (15)
    5.67% Cumulative, Series D Preferred Stock                      (11)         (11)         (10)
    7.115% Cumulative, Series E Preferred Stock                     (18)         (12)            -
    Redeemable Voting Preferred Stock                               (50)         (50)         (50)
    Common Stock                                                    (75)         (59)         (48)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ending balance                                                    4,798        3,713        2,094
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE
    Beginning balance                                             2,524        1,768        1,318
    RSUs exchanged for Common Stock                                (215)        (247)         (83)
    Deferred stock awards granted                                   624        1,003          533
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ending balance                                                    2,933        2,524        1,768
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMON STOCK HELD IN RSU TRUST
    Beginning balance                                              (647)        (717)        (422)
    Shares issued to RSU Trust                                     (403)        (231)        (441)
    RSUs exchanged for Common Stock                                 223          301          146
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ending balance                                                     (827)        (647)        (717)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEFERRED STOCK COMPENSATION
    Beginning balance                                            (1,280)        (797)        (627)
    Deferred stock awards granted                                  (624)      (1,003)        (533)
    Amortization of deferred compensation, net                      544          520          363
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ending balance                                                   (1,360)      (1,280)        (797)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMON STOCK IN TREASURY, AT COST
    Beginning balance                                              (835)        (150)        (430)
    Treasury stock purchased                                     (1,676)      (1,203)        (353)
    RSUs exchanged for Common Stock                                   5            -            -
    Shares issued for preferred stock conversion                     44            -            -
    Employee stock-based awards                                      69           77           11
    Shares issued to RSU Trust                                    1,031          441          622
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ending balance                                                   (1,362)        (835)        (150)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total stockholders' equity                                      $ 8,459      $ 7,781      $ 6,283
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(2) Net of income taxes of $(1) in 2001, $(8) in 2000 and $(11) in 1999.

</TABLE>


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                       63

<PAGE>



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

In millions
Twelve months ended November 30                                                 2001         2000         1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                         <C>          <C>          <C>

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net Income                                                                   $ 1,255      $ 1,775      $ 1,132
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used in)
    operating activities:
    Depreciation and amortization                                                174          102           88
    Deferred tax provision (benefit)                                            (643)        (169)        (145)
    Tax benefit from issuance of stock-based awards                              549          373           90
    Amortization of deferred stock compensation                                  544          520          363
    Special charge                                                               356            -            -
    Other adjustments                                                            (1)           65         (129)
Net change in:
    Cash and securities segregated and on deposit                               (855)        (445)        (806)
    Securities and other financial instruments owned                         (13,219)     (16,148)     (12,059)
    Securities borrowed                                                         (376)       1,779       (3,056)
    Receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing organizations              (1,793)          12          624
    Receivables from customers                                                (4,538)       1,747       (1,574)
    Securities and other financial instruments sold but not yet purchased     16,045      (11,325)      17,807
    Securities loaned                                                          5,299        2,674        1,403
    Payables to brokers, dealers and clearing organizations                      883          738         (138)
    Payables to customers                                                      2,194          666        1,768
    Accrued liabilities and other payables                                     1,130        4,041          377
    Other operating assets and liabilities, net                                 (325)      (1,138)         596
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities                        6,679      (14,733)       6,341
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from issuance of senior notes                                         9,915       14,225        9,753
Principal payments of senior notes                                            (7,646)      (8,353)      (6,037)
Proceeds from issuance of subordinated indebtedness                                -            -          200
Principal payments of subordinated indebtedness                                 (204)        (192)        (370)
Net proceeds from (payments for) commercial paper and short-term debt(935)       324       (1,181)
Resale agreements net of repurchase agreements                                (7,182)      10,122       (6,488)
Payments for repurchases of preferred stock                                     (100)         (88)        (220)
Payments for treasury stock purchases                                         (1,676)      (1,203)        (353)
Dividends paid                                                                  (163)        (149)        (139)
Issuances of common stock                                                         54           99            8
Issuance of preferred stock, net of issuance costs                                 -          250            -
Issuance of trust preferred securities, net of issuance costs                      -            -          690
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities                       (7,937)      15,035       (4,137)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchases of property, equipment and leasehold improvements, net              (1,341)        (287)         (73)
Acquisition, net of cash acquired                                                  -          (41)           -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net cash used in investing activities                                     (1,341)        (328)         (73)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net change in cash and cash equivalents                                   (2,599)         (26)       2,131
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period                                 5,160        5,186        3,055
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Cash and cash equivalents, end of period                                 $ 2,561      $ 5,160      $ 5,186
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION (in millions) Interest paid
totaled $15,588 in 2001, $18,500 in 2000 and $13,513 in 1999.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income taxes paid totaled $654 in 2001, $473 in 2000 and $103 in 1999.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


</TABLE>

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                       64


<PAGE>


Notes to consolidated financial statements

Note 1       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies                    66
Note 2       Special Charge                                                69
Note 3       Short-Term Financings                                         70
Note 4       Long-Term Debt                                                71
Note 5       Preferred Securities Subject to Mandatory Redemption          73
Note 6       Preferred Stock                                               74
Note 7       Common Stock                                                  75
Note 8       Incentive Plans                                               76
Note 9       Earnings Per Common Share                                     79
Note 10      Capital Requirements                                          80
Note 11      Employee Benefit Plans                                        81
Note 12      Income Taxes                                                  82
Note 13      Securities Pledged as Collateral                              84
Note 14      Derivative Financial Instruments                              84
Note 15      Fair Value of Financial Instruments                           88
Note 16      Other Commitments and Contingencies                           89
Note 17      Segments                                                      91
Note 18      Quarterly Information (unaudited)                             93



                                       65


<PAGE>



NOTE 1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF PRESENTATION. The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ("Holdings") and subsidiaries
(collectively, the "Company" or "Lehman Brothers"). Lehman Brothers is one of
the leading global investment banks serving institutional, corporate, government
and high-net-worth individual clients and customers. The Company's worldwide
headquarters in New York and regional headquarters in London and Tokyo are
complemented by offices in additional locations in North America, Europe, the
Middle East, Latin America and the Asia Pacific Region. The Company is engaged
primarily in providing financial services. The principal U.S. subsidiary of
Holdings is Lehman Brothers Inc. ("LBI"), a registered broker-dealer. All
material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.

The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles which require management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Management estimates are required to be utilized in
determining the valuation of trading inventory particularly in the area of OTC
derivatives and private equity securities. Additionally, management estimates
are required in assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, the outcome
of litigation and determining the components of the 2001 special charge.
Management believes that the estimates utilized in preparing its financial
statements are reasonable and prudent. Actual results could differ from these
estimates.

The Company uses the trade date basis of accounting for securities transactions.

Certain prior period amounts reflect reclassifications to conform to the current
year's presentation.

SECURITIES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS. Securities and other financial
instruments owned and securities and other financial instruments sold but not
yet purchased are valued at market or fair value, as appropriate, with
unrealized gains and losses reflected in Principal transactions in the
Consolidated Statement of Income. Market value is generally based on listed
market prices. If listed market prices are not available, or if liquidating the
Company's position is reasonably expected to affect market prices, fair value is
either determined based on internal valuation pricing models which take into
account time value and volatility factors underlying the financial instruments,
or management's estimate of the amounts that could be realized under current
market conditions, assuming an orderly liquidation over a reasonable period of
time.

As of November 30, 2001, all firm-owned securities pledged to counterparties
where the counterparty has the right, by contract or custom, to sell or repledge
the securities are classified as Securities Owned Pledged as Collateral as
required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 140,
"Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments
of Liabilities." SFAS 140 does not require the restatement of prior year
balances, therefore, such securities as of November 30, 2000 are classified
within their respective inventory categories.

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS. A derivative is typically defined as an
instrument whose value is "derived" from an underlying instrument, index or
rate, such as a future, forward, swap, or option contract, or other financial
instrument with similar characteristics. A derivative contract generally
represents future commitments to exchange interest payment streams or currencies
based on the contract or notional amount or to purchase or sell other financial
instruments at specified terms on a specified date.

Derivatives utilized for trading purposes are recorded at market or fair value
in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition on a net by counterparty
basis where a legal right of set-off exists and are netted across products when
such provisions are stated in the master netting agreement. Derivatives are
often referred to as off-balance-sheet instruments since neither their notional
amounts nor the underlying instruments are reflected as assets or liabilities of
the Company. Instead, the market or fair value related to the derivative
transactions is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition as
an asset or liability in Derivatives and other contractual agreements, as
applicable. Margin on futures contracts is included in receivables and payables
from/to brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, as applicable. Changes in
fair values of derivatives are recorded as principal transactions revenues in
the current period. Market or fair value for trading-related instruments is
generally determined by either quoted market prices (for exchange-traded futures
and options) or pricing models (for over-the-counter swaps, forwards and
options). Pricing models utilize a series of market inputs to determine the


                                       66

<PAGE>


present value of future cash flows, with adjustments, as required for credit
risk and liquidity risk. Further valuation adjustments may be recorded, as
deemed appropriate for new or complex products or for positions with significant
concentrations. These adjustments are integral components of the mark-to-market
process. Credit-related valuation adjustments incorporate business and economic
conditions, historical experience, concentrations, estimates of expected losses
and the character, quality and performance of credit sensitive financial
instruments.

As an end-user, the Company primarily utilizes derivatives to modify the
interest rate characteristics of its long-term debt and secured financing
activities. The Company also utilizes equity derivatives to hedge its exposure
to equity price risk embedded in certain of its debt obligations and foreign
exchange forwards to manage the currency exposure related to its net monetary
investment in non-U.S. dollar functional currency operations (collectively,
"end-user derivative activities").

Effective December 1, 2000, the Company adopted SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended by SFAS No. 138,
"Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities"
(collectively, "SFAS 133"), which requires that all derivative instruments be
reported on the consolidated statement of financial condition at fair value.
SFAS 133 changed the Company's accounting methodology applied to its end-user
derivative activities, however, the adoption of SFAS 133 had no effect on the
accounting for the Company's trading-related derivative activities, as such
derivatives were already recorded on a fair value basis.

Under SFAS 133, the accounting for end-user derivative activities is dependent
upon the nature of the hedging relationship. In certain hedging relationships,
both the derivative and the hedged item will be marked-to-market through
earnings for changes in fair value ("fair value hedge"). In many instances the
hedge relationship is fully effective so that the mark-to-market on the
derivative and the hedged item will offset. In other hedging relationships, the
derivative will be marked-to-market with the offsetting gains or losses recorded
in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, a component of Stockholder's Equity,
until the hedged item is realized in earnings ("cash flow hedge"). SFAS 133 also
requires certain derivatives embedded in long-term debt to be bifurcated and
marked-to-market through earnings.

SFAS 133 changed the accounting treatment for the hedged item in a fair value
hedge (e.g., long-term debt or secured financing activities) from what was an
accrual basis to a modified mark-to-market value. The hedged item's carrying
value may differ from a full mark-to-market value since SFAS 133 requires that
the hedged item be adjusted only for changes in fair value associated with the
designated risks being hedged during the hedge period.

The Company principally utilizes fair value hedges to convert a substantial
portion of the Company's fixed rate debt and certain long-term secured financing
activities to floating interest rates. Any hedge ineffectiveness in these
relationships is recorded as a component of interest expense on the Company's
Statement of Income. Gains or losses from revaluing foreign exchange contracts
associated with hedging the Company's net investments in foreign affiliates are
reported within Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Stockholder's Equity.
Unrealized receivables/payables resulting from the mark-to-market on end-user
derivatives are included in Securities and Other Financial Instruments Owned or
Sold but not yet Purchased.

The adoption of SFAS 133, as of December 1, 2000, did not have a material effect
on the Company's consolidated statement of financial condition or the results of
operations, as most of the Company's derivative transactions are entered into
for trading-related activities for which the adoption of SFAS 133 had no impact.
Prior year amounts have not been restated to conform with the current SFAS 133
accounting treatment. Therefore, end-user derivative activities for all periods
prior to December 1, 2001 are recorded on an accrual basis provided that the
derivative was designated and deemed to be a highly effective hedge. For periods
prior to 2001, realized gains or losses on early terminations of derivatives
that were designated as hedges were deferred and amortized to interest income or
interest expense over the remaining life of the instrument being hedged.

SECURED FINANCING ACTIVITIES

REPURCHASE AND RESALE AGREEMENTS. Securities purchased under agreements to
resell and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, which are treated as
financing transactions for financial reporting purposes, are collateralized
primarily by government and government agency securities and are carried net by
counterparty, when permitted, at the amounts at which the securities will be
subsequently resold or repurchased plus accrued


                                      67

<PAGE>


interest. It is the policy of the Company to take possession of securities
purchased under agreements to resell. The Company monitors the market value of
the underlying positions on a daily basis as compared to the related receivable
or payable balances, including accrued interest. The Company requires
counterparties to deposit additional collateral or return collateral pledged as
necessary, to ensure that the market value of the underlying collateral remains
sufficient. Securities and other financial instruments owned that are financed
under repurchase agreements are carried at market value with changes in market
value reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Income.

The Company utilizes interest rate swaps as an end-user to modify the interest
rate exposure associated with certain fixed rate resale and repurchase
agreements. In 2001, and in accordance with SFAS No. 133, the Company adjusted
the carrying value of these secured financing transactions that had been
designated as the hedge.

SECURITIES BORROWED AND LOANED. Securities borrowed and securities loaned are
carried at the amount of cash collateral advanced or received plus accrued
interest. It is the Company's policy to value the securities borrowed and loaned
on a daily basis, and to obtain additional cash as necessary to ensure such
transactions are adequately collateralized.

PRIVATE EQUITY INVESTMENTS. The Company carries its private equity investments,
including its partnership interests, at fair value based upon the Company's
assessment of each underlying investment. As the general partner in its private
equity funds, the Company may be entitled to receive a preferred distribution of
realized profits.

INVESTMENT BANKING. Underwriting revenues and fees for merger and acquisition
advisory services are recognized when services for the transactions are
determined to be completed. Underwriting expenses are deferred and recognized at
the time the related revenues are recorded.

INCOME TAXES. The Company accounts for income taxes under the provisions of SFAS
No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." The Company recognizes the current and
deferred tax consequences of all transactions that have been recognized in the
financial statements using the provisions of the enacted tax laws.

In this regard, deferred tax assets are recognized for temporary differences
that will result in deductible amounts in future years and for tax loss
carry-forwards, if in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that
the deferred tax asset will be realized. SFAS 109 requires companies to set up a
valuation allowance for that component of net deferred tax assets which does not
meet the "more likely than not" criterion for realization. Deferred tax
liabilities are recognized for temporary differences that will result in taxable
income in future years.

SECURITIZATIONS. The Company is a market leader in mortgage- and asset-backed
securitizations and other structured financing arrangements. In connection with
these activities, the Company utilizes special purpose entities principally for
(but not limited to) the securitization of commercial and residential mortgages,
home equity loans, government and corporate bonds, and lease and trade
receivables. The Company derecognizes financial assets transferred in
securitizations provided that the Company has relinquished control over such
assets. The Company may retain an interest in the financial assets it
securitizes ("Retained Interests") which may include assets in the form of
residual interests in the special purpose entities established to facilitate the
securitization. Any Retained Interests are included in Securities and Other
Financial Instruments Owned within the Company's Statement of Financial
Condition. The Company records its Securities and Other Financial Instruments
Owned, including Retained Interests, at fair value with changes in fair value
reported in earnings. Fair value is determined based upon listed market prices,
if available. When listed market prices are not available, fair value is
determined based on other relevant factors, including broker or dealer price
quotations and valuation pricing models which take into account time value and
volatility factors underlying the financial instruments among other factors.
During the fiscal year-ended 2001, the Company securitized approximately $110
billion of financial assets.

As of November 30, 2001, the Company had approximately $1.6 billion of
non-investment grade retained interests from its securitization activities. The
Company records its Retained Interests at fair value and actively manages market
risk exposures associated with Retained Interests.

TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES. Assets and liabilities of foreign
subsidiaries having non-U.S. dollar functional currencies are translated at
exchange rates at the statement of financial condition date. Revenues and
expenses are translated at average exchange rates during the period. The gains
or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements into
U.S. dollars, net of hedging gains or losses and taxes, are


                                       68
<PAGE>

included in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, a separate component of
Stockholders' Equity. Gains or losses resulting from foreign currency
transactions are included in the Consolidated Statement of Income.

PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND LEASEHOLD IMPROVEMENTS. Property, equipment and
leasehold improvements are recorded at historical cost, net of accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is recognized on a straight-line
basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Leasehold
improvements are amortized over the lesser of their economic useful lives or the
terms of the underlying leases. Internal use software which qualifies for
capitalization under AICPA Statement of Position 98-1, "Accounting for the Costs
of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use," is capitalized and
subsequently amortized over the estimated useful life of the software.

GOODWILL. Excess of cost over fair value of net assets acquired ("goodwill") is
amortized using the straight-line method over periods not exceeding 35 years.
Goodwill is evaluated periodically for impairment and also is reduced upon the
recognition of certain acquired net operating loss carryforward benefits.

STOCK-BASED AWARDS. SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,"
established financial accounting and reporting standards for stock-based
employee compensation plans. SFAS No. 123 permits companies to either continue
accounting for stock-based compensation using the intrinsic value method
prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 ("APB 25") or using the
fair value method prescribed by SFAS No. 123. The Company continues to follow
APB 25 and its related interpretations in accounting for its stock-based
compensation plans. Accordingly, no compensation expense has been recognized for
stock option awards because the exercise price was at or above the fair market
value of the Company's common stock on the grant date.

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS. For purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows, the Company defines cash equivalents as highly liquid investments with
original maturities of three months or less, other than those held for sale in
the ordinary course of business.

EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE. The Company computes earnings per common share in
accordance with SFAS No. 128, "Earnings per Share." Basic earnings per share is
computed by dividing income available to common stockholders by the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS
reflects the assumed conversion of all dilutive securities. All share and per
share amounts have been restated for the two-for-one common stock split,
effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend, which became effective October
20, 2000. See Notes 7 and 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
more information.

NOTE 2.  SPECIAL CHARGE

As a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack, the Company's leased
facilities in the World Trade Center were destroyed and its leased and owned
facilities in the World Financial Center ("WFC") complex (including the 3 World
Financial Center building owned jointly with American Express) were
significantly damaged. All employees and operations in the downtown New York
area were displaced. Key business activities and necessary support functions
were quickly relocated to the Company's back-up facilities in New Jersey and to
various other temporary sites.

The Company has been informed that the facilities in the World Financial Center
complex can be repaired; however, the damage to many of the floors that had been
occupied by the Company at the 3 WFC location is significant. A repair and
remediation plan is currently under way although a completion date has not been
finalized. Consequently, the Company purchased a new one million-square-foot
building at 745 Seventh Avenue in New York City during the fourth quarter of
2001 and is relocating its principal executive and operating offices to this
site in 2002. New long-term lease agreements were also executed for other space
in midtown Manhattan. As a result, the Company is currently evaluating its space
needs and exploring its alternatives with respect to 3 WFC and the other
downtown New York facilities.

The Company has significant levels of insurance in place to cover the losses
resulting from the terrorist attack including a policy covering damage to the
core and shell of the 3 WFC building and a separate policy covering the property
damage of the WTC and WFC facilities, losses resulting from business
interruption and extra expenses associated with the Company's relocation to, and
occupancy of, the temporary facilities.


                                       69

<PAGE>

During the fourth quarter, the Company recognized a pretax special charge of
$127 million ($71 million after-tax) associated with the net losses stemming
from the events of September 11, 2001. These losses and costs include the
write-off of property damaged, destroyed or abandoned at the Company's downtown
facilities (approximately $340 million), compensation paid to employees in lieu
of utilizing external consultants for business recovery efforts and to employees
for the time they were idled (approximately $100 million), costs incurred to
maintain the facilities while they are unusable (approximately $16 million), and
other costs associated with redeployment of the Company's workforce to the
temporary facilities (approximately $31 million). The losses and costs were
offset by estimated insurance recoveries of $360 million. All expenses
associated with the Company's use of temporary facilities during this period
have been reflected as part of occupancy or technology and communications
expenses in the accompanying consolidated statement of income.

The charge does not reflect any loss resulting from the damage to the core and
shell of the Company's 3 WFC facility, as this amount is not yet known. However,
the Company believes that any loss will be fully recoverable under the Company's
building core and shell insurance policy.

The insurance recovery recorded through November 30, 2001 has been limited to
the net historical book value of assets believed damaged, destroyed or abandoned
and the out-of-pocket costs for certain extra expenses incurred during the
period.

The displacement and relocation of the Company's New York workforce, the closure
of certain markets for certain periods following the terrorist attack and other
issues directly related to the September 11 tragedy have negatively impacted the
Company's business. The Company is in the process of pursing a business
interruption claim with its insurance carriers for lost revenue and related
damages. As of November 30, 2001, the Company has not given any accounting
recognition to the anticipated business interruption recovery.

NOTE 3.  SHORT-TERM FINANCINGS

The Company obtains short-term financing on both a secured and unsecured basis.
The secured financing is obtained through the use of repurchase agreements and
securities loaned agreements, which are primarily collateralized by government,
agency and equity securities. The unsecured financing is generally obtained
through short-term debt and the issuance of commercial paper.

BACK-UP CREDIT FACILITIES. Holdings maintains a Revolving Credit Agreement (the
"Credit Agreement") with a syndicate of banks. Under the terms of the Credit
Agreement, the banks have committed to provide up to $1 billion for up to 364
days. Any loans outstanding on the commitment termination date may be extended
for up to an additional year at the option of Holdings. The Credit Agreement
contains covenants, which require, among other things that the Company maintain
specified levels of tangible net worth. During 2001, the Company elected to
reduce the committed amount under the Credit Agreement to $1 billion from $2
billion.

The Company's commercial paper and short-term debt financing, and its
weighted-average interest rates, were as follows:

In millions
November 30                                           2001         2000
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commercial paper                                    $1,986       $3,643
Short-term debt
    Secured bank loans                                 672          320
    Payables to banks                                  502          687
    Other short-term debt(1)                         1,705        1,150
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                               $4,865       $5,800
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

November 30                                           2001         2000
Commercial paper                                      3.0%         6.5%(2)
Short-term debt(3)                                    2.8%         5.5%
Securities sold under
    agreements to repurchase                          2.7%         6.0%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1) Includes master notes, corporate loans and other short-term financings.


(2) Includes weighted-average interest rate of 6.9% and 3.0% as of November 30,
    2000 related to U.S. dollar and non-U.S. dollar obligations, respectively.

(3) Includes $827 million and $587 million of short-term debt with
    weighted-average interest rates of 3.0% and 3.3% as of November 30, 2001 and
    2000, respectively, related to non-U.S. dollar obligations.



                                       70

<PAGE>

In October 2001, the Company entered into a $1 billion Committed Securities
Repurchase Facility (the "Facility") for Lehman Brothers International (Europe)
("LBIE"), the Company's major operating entity in Europe. The Facility provides
secured multi-currency financing for a broad range of collateral types. Under
the terms of the Facility, the bank group will agree to provide funding for up
to one year on a secured basis. Any loans outstanding on the commitment
termination date may be extended for up to an additional year at the option of
LBIE. The Facility contains covenants that require, among other things, that
LBIE maintain specified levels of tangible net worth.

There are no borrowings outstanding under either the Credit Agreement or the
Facility. The Company may use the Credit Agreement and the Facility for general
corporate purposes from time to time. The Company has maintained compliance with
the applicable covenants for both the Credit Agreement and the Facility at all
times.

NOTE 4.  LONG-TERM DEBT

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                  U.S. DOLLAR             NON-U.S. DOLLAR
                                               ------------------        ------------------
In millions                                    Fixed     Floating        Fixed     Floating
November 30                                     Rate         Rate         Rate         Rate         2001         2000
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>          <C>           <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>

SENIOR NOTES
Maturing in Fiscal 2001                                                                                       $ 6,782
Maturing in Fiscal 2002                      $ 1,961      $ 4,397       $  835      $   858      $ 8,051        5,873
Maturing in Fiscal 2003                        2,341        2,322          694          595        5,952        4,989
Maturing in Fiscal 2004                        1,755        1,180        1,092          679        4,706        3,582
Maturing in Fiscal 2005                        2,360          615          242          605        3,822        3,759
Maturing in Fiscal 2006                        3,066           83          522          409        4,080        1,456
December 1, 2006 and thereafter                5,462          505        1,376        1,419        8,762        5,665
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Senior Notes                              16,945        9,102        4,761        4,565       35,373       32,106
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUBORDINATED INDEBTEDNESS
Maturing in Fiscal 2001                                                                                           200
Maturing in Fiscal 2002                          450           33            -            -          483          488
Maturing in Fiscal 2003                          475            -            -            -          475          475
Maturing in Fiscal 2004                          191            -            -            -          191          191
Maturing in Fiscal 2005                           94            -            7            -          101          101
Maturing in Fiscal 2006                          300            -            -            -          300          300
December 1, 2006 and thereafter                1,219          152            7            -        1,378        1,372
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Subordinated Indebtedness                  2,729          185           14            -        2,928        3,127
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Long-Term Debt                               $19,674      $ 9,287      $ 4,775      $ 4,565      $38,301      $35,233
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>


Of the Company's long-term debt outstanding as of November 30, 2001, $674
million is repayable prior to maturity at the option of the holder, at par
value. These obligations are reflected in the above table as maturing at their
put dates, which range from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2008, rather than at their
contractual maturities, which range from fiscal 2004 to fiscal 2026. In
addition, $1,320 million of the Company's long-term debt is redeemable prior to
maturity at the option of the Company under various terms and conditions. These
obligations are reflected in the above table at their contractual maturity
dates.

As of November 30, 2001, the Company's U.S. dollar and non-U.S. dollar debt
portfolios included approximately $1,215 million and $1,801 million,
respectively, of debt for which the interest rates and/or redemption values or
maturity have been linked to the performance of various indices including
industry baskets of stocks or commodities or events. Generally, such notes are
issued as floating rate notes or the interest rates on such index notes are
effectively converted to floating rates based primarily on LIBOR through the use
of interest rate, currency and equity swaps.


                                       71


<PAGE>

END-USER DERIVATIVE ACTIVITIES. The Company utilizes a variety of derivative
products including interest rate, currency and equity swaps as an end-user to
modify the interest rate characteristics of its long-term debt portfolio. The
Company primarily utilizes interest rate swaps to convert a substantial portion
of the Company's fixed rate debt to floating interest rates to more closely
match the terms of assets being funded and to minimize interest rate risk. In
addition, the Company utilizes cross-currency swaps to hedge its exposure to
foreign currency risk as a result of its non-U.S. dollar debt obligations, after
consideration of non-U.S. dollar assets which are funded with long-term debt
obligations in the same currency. In certain instances, two or more derivative
contracts may be utilized by the Company to manage the interest rate nature
and/or currency exposure of an individual long-term debt issuance.

Effective 2001, the Company adopted SFAS 133 and as such all end-user
derivatives at November 30, 2001 are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet
(see Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies-Derivative Financial Instruments).
The Company adjusted the carrying value of its hedged fixed rate debt to a
modified mark-to-market value in accordance with SFAS 133, as such debt was
designated as the hedged item of a fair value hedge.

At November 30, 2001 and 2000, the notional amounts of the Company's interest
rate, currency and equity swaps related to its long-term debt obligations were
approximately $35.1 billion and $26.9 billion, respectively. In terms of
notional amounts outstanding, these derivative products mature as follows:

NOTIONAL AMOUNTS OF END-USER DERIVATIVE ACTIVITIES


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                        FAIR VALUE HEDGE                            OTHER(2)
                                    --------------------------                -------------------
In millions                             U.S.      Non-U.S.       Cross-         U.S.     Non-U.S.
November 30                           Dollar        Dollar     Currency       Dollar       Dollar         2001         2000
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>            <C>          <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>           <C>

Maturing in Fiscal 2001                                                                                            $  3,264
Maturing in Fiscal 2002              $ 1,713        $  849      $   625      $ 1,150      $   347      $ 4,684        4,516
Maturing in Fiscal 2003                2,473           671          174        1,076          186        4,580        4,173
Maturing in Fiscal 2004                1,651           819          869        1,244          148        4,731        2,977
Maturing in Fiscal 2005                2,246           202          722          140          132        3,442        3,345
Maturing in Fiscal 2006                3,200           507          522          126          423        4,778          475
December 1, 2006 and thereafter        6,657         1,319        1,691          757        2,438       12,862        8,158
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                $17,940       $ 4,367      $ 4,603      $ 4,493      $ 3,674      $35,077      $26,908
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted-average interest rate at November 30(1):
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Receive rate                           7.46%         4.54%        3.34%        3.43%        4.70%        5.32%        6.54%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pay rate                               3.12%         3.77%        2.68%        2.59%        3.84%        2.81%        7.13%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

(1) Weighted-average interest rates were calculated utilizing non-U.S. dollar
    interest rates, where applicable.


(2) Other derivatives include basis swaps and hedges of embedded derivatives.

In addition, the Company's end-user derivative activities resulted in the
following changes to the Company's mix of fixed and floating rate debt and
effective weighted-average rates of interest:

EFFECTIVE WEIGHTED-AVERAGE INTEREST RATES OF LONG-TERM DEBT

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                            LONG-TERM DEBT     WEIGHTED-AVERAGE(1)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                Before         After  Contractual   Effective Rate
In millions                                                    End-User     End-User    Interest    After End-User
November 30, 2001                                            Activities   Activities        Rate        Activities
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                            <C>          <C>           <C>        <C>

USD Obligations
    Fixed rate                                                  $19,674      $   537
    Floating rate                                                 9,287       32,702
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 28,961       33,239
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Non-USD Obligations                                               9,340        5,062
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                           $38,301      $38,301        5.19%        2.89%
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In millions
November 30, 2000
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

USD Obligations
    Fixed rate                                                  $18,228      $   726
    Floating rate                                                 9,050       30,792
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 27,278       31,518
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Non-USD Obligations                                               7,955        3,715
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                           $35,233      $35,233        6.68%        7.13%
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>


(1) Weighted-average interest rates were calculated using non-U.S. dollar
    interest rates, where applicable.


                                     72

<PAGE>

NOTE 5.  PREFERRED SECURITIES SUBJECT TO MANDATORY REDEMPTION

Preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption are composed of the
following issues:

PREFERRED SECURITIES SUBJECT TO MANDATORY REDEMPTION

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

In millions
November 30                                                        2001         2000
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                               <C>          <C>

Lehman Brothers Holdings Capital Trust I                           $325         $325
Lehman Brothers Holdings Capital Trust II                           385          385
    Trust Preferred Securities Subject to Mandatory Redemption      710          710
Cumulative Convertible Voting, Series A and Series B                  -          150
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                              $710         $860
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES SUBJECT TO MANDATORY REDEMPTION. During 1999, the
Company formed two Delaware business trusts for the purposes of: (a) issuing
trust securities representing ownership interests in the assets of the trust;
(b) investing the gross proceeds of the trust securities in junior subordinated
debentures of the Company; and (c) engaging in activities necessary or
incidental thereto. Two such trusts have issued securities to date, having an
aggregate liquidation value of $710 million. The following table summarizes the
financial structure of each such trust at November 30, 2001:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                        Lehman Brothers Holdings             Lehman Brothers Holdings
                                                                 Capital Trust I                     Capital Trust II
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ISSUANCE DATE                                                       January 1999                           April 1999
<S>                                             <C>                                  <C>
Trust Securities
Preferred securities issued                                  13,000,000 Series I                  15,400,000 Series J
Liquidation preference per security                                          $25                                  $25
Liquidation value (in millions)                                             $325                                 $385
Coupon rate                                                                   8%                               7.875%
Distributions payable                                                  Quarterly                            Quarterly
Distributions guaranteed by                        Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.        Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
Mandatory redemption date                                         March 31, 2048                        June 30, 2048
Redeemable by issuer on or after                                  March 31, 2004                        June 30, 2004
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES
Principal amount outstanding (in millions)                                  $325                                 $385
Coupon rate                                                                   8%                               7.875%
Interest payable                                                       Quarterly                            Quarterly
Maturity date                                                     March 31, 2048                        June 30, 2048
Redeemable by issuer on or after                                  March 31, 2004                        June 30, 2004
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


</TABLE>


CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE VOTING, SERIES A AND SERIES B. The Convertible Voting
Preferred Shares had a liquidation preference of $39.10 per share and were
redeemed during the first quarter of 2001. The Series A was issued in 1987. The
Series B was issued in an exchange offer for the Series A on July 11, 1997.
During the first quarter of 2000, Holdings repurchased 2,258,311 of the Series B
for an aggregate cost of $88 million. During the fourth quarter of 2000, the
Company exercised its option to redeem the remaining shares of Cumulative
Convertible Voting Preferred Stock, Series A and B (together the "Convertible
Voting Preferred"). As of November 30, 2000, 1,900 shares of the Series A and
3,834,058 shares of the Series B were outstanding. Given the Company's
announcement of its intention to redeem the Convertible Voting Preferred, the
$150 million aggregate redemption value was transferred on the Company's
Statement of Financial Condition at November 30, 2000, from Preferred stock to
Preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption. The redemption was
effective on December 15, 2000, and as of that date the Convertible Voting
Preferred Shares were no longer outstanding.



                                       73

<PAGE>

NOTE 6.  PREFERRED STOCK

Holdings is authorized to issue a total of 38,000,000 shares of preferred stock.
At November 30, 2001, Holdings had 591,000 shares issued and outstanding under
various series as described below. All preferred stock has a dividend preference
over Holdings' common stock in the paying of dividends and a preference in the
liquidation of assets.

SERIES C. On May 11, 1998, Holdings issued 5,000,000 Depository Shares, each
representing 1/10th of a share of 5.94% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C
("Series C Preferred Stock"), $1.00 par value. These shares have a redemption
price of $500 per share, together with accrued and unpaid dividends. Holdings
may redeem any or all of the outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock
beginning on May 31, 2008. The $250 million redemption value of the shares
outstanding at November 30, 2001 is classified on the Company's Consolidated
Statement of Financial Condition as a component of Preferred stock.

SERIES D. On July 21, 1998, Holdings issued 4,000,000 Depository Shares, each
representing 1/100th of a share of 5.67% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D
("Series D Preferred Stock"), $1.00 par value. These shares have a redemption
price of $5,000 per share, together with accrued and unpaid dividends. Holdings
may redeem any or all of the outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock
beginning on August 31, 2008. The $200 million redemption value of the shares
outstanding at November 30, 2001 is classified on the Company's Consolidated
Statement of Financial Condition as a component of Preferred stock.

SERIES E. On March 28, 2000, Holdings issued 5,000,000 Depository Shares, each
representing 1/100th of a share of Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred
Stock, Series E ("Series E Preferred Stock"), $1.00 par value. The initial
cumulative dividend rate on the Series E Preferred Stock is 7.115% per annum
through May 31, 2005; thereafter the rate will be the higher of either the
three-month U.S. Treasury Bill rate, the 10-year Treasury constant maturity rate
or the 30-year U.S. Treasury constant maturity rate, in each case plus 1.15%,
but in any event not less than 7.615% nor greater than 13.615%. These shares
have a redemption price of $5,000 per share, together with accrued and unpaid
dividends. Holdings may redeem any or all of the outstanding shares of Series E
Preferred Stock beginning on May 31, 2005. The $250 million redemption value of
the shares outstanding at November 30, 2001 is classified on the Company's
Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition as a component of Preferred stock.

REDEEMABLE VOTING. In 1994, Holdings issued the Redeemable Voting Preferred
Stock to American Express and Nippon Life for $1,000. The holders of the
Redeemable Voting Preferred Stock are entitled to receive annual dividends
through May 31, 2002, in an amount equal to 50% of the amount, if any, by which
the Company's net income for each fiscal year exceeds $400 million, up to a
maximum of $50 million per year. For the last dividend period, which runs from
December 1, 2001 to May 31, 2002, holders are entitled to receive a dividend
equal to 50% of the amount, if any, by which the Company's net income for the
first six months of fiscal 2002 exceeds $200 million, up to a maximum of $25
million. For the years ended November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999, the Company's net
income resulted in the recognition of dividends in each year in the amount of
$50 million on the Redeemable Voting Preferred Stock.

Holdings is required to redeem all of the Redeemable Preferred Stock on the
final dividend payment, July 15, 2002, for a total of $1,000. In the event of a
change of control of the Company, holders of the Redeemable Preferred Stock had
the right to require Holdings to redeem all of the stock for an aggregate
redemption price equal to $50 million if such change of control occurred prior
to November 30, 2001. If a change of control was not approved by a majority of
Holdings' Board of Directors, the funds for redemption would have had to be
raised by an offering of Holdings' equity securities, which were not redeemable.
The Redeemable Preferred Stock is not convertible into common stock.



                                       74

<PAGE>

NOTE 7.  COMMON STOCK

In 2000, Lehman Brothers' Board of Directors declared a two-for-one common
split, effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend. All share and per share
data presented in this Annual Report to Stockholders reflect the effect of the
split.

In April 2001, the Company's shareholders approved the adoption of an amendment
of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase the aggregate
number of authorized shares of common stock from 300 million to 600 million.

Changes in shares of Holdings' common stock outstanding are as follows:

COMMON STOCK


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

November 30                                                        2001             2000              1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>              <C>               <C>

Shares outstanding, beginning of period                     236,395,332      239,825,620       227,315,754
Exercise of stock options and other share issuances           8,369,721       10,015,048         1,925,642
Treasury stock purchases                                   (23,230,962)     (25,245,336)      (12,415,776)
Issuances of shares to the RSU Trust                         16,000,000       11,800,000        23,000,000
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shares outstanding, end of period                           237,534,091      236,395,332       239,825,620
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


During the years ended November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999, the Company repurchased
or acquired shares of its Common Stock at an aggregate cost of approximately
$1,676 million, $1,203 million and $353 million, respectively. These shares were
acquired in the open market and from employees who had tendered mature shares to
pay for the exercise cost of stock options and related tax withholding
obligations. These shares are being reserved for future issuances under employee
stock-based compensation plans.

In 1997, the Company established an irrevocable grantor trust (the "RSU Trust")
in order to provide common stock voting rights to employees who hold outstanding
restricted stock units and to encourage employees to think and act like owners.
The RSU Trust was initially funded in 1997 with a total of 32.0 million shares
consisting of 10.0 million treasury shares for restricted stock unit ("RSU")
awards under the Employee Incentive Plan and 22.0 million new issue shares of
Common Stock for RSU awards under the 1994 Management Ownership Plan. In 2001,
2000 and 1999, 16.0 million, 11.8 million and 23.0 million Treasury shares,
respectively, were transferred into the RSU Trust. At November 30, 2001,
approximately 45.7 million shares were held in the RSU Trust with a total value
of approximately $827 million. For accounting purposes, these shares are valued
at weighted-average grant prices.

Shares transferred to the RSU Trust do not impact the total number of shares
used in the computation of earnings per common share because the Company
considers the RSUs as common stock equivalents for purposes of this computation.
Accordingly, the establishment of the RSU Trust has had no effect on the total
equity, net income or earnings per share of the Company.


                                       75

<PAGE>

NOTE 8.  INCENTIVE PLANS

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN. The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP")
allows employees to purchase Common Stock at a 15% discount from market value,
with a maximum of $25,000 in annual aggregate purchases by any one individual.
The number of shares of Common Stock authorized for purchase by eligible
employees is 12.0 million. As of November 30, 2001 and 2000, 5.5 million shares
and 5.2 million shares, respectively, of Common Stock had cumulatively been
purchased by eligible employees through the ESPP.

1994 INCENTIVE PLANS. The 1994 Management Replacement Plan (the "Replacement
Plan") provided awards similar to the American Express common shares granted to
Company employees which were canceled as of the date of the spin-off from
American Express. Through November 30, 2001, a total of 3.9 million awards had
been granted under the Replacement Plan, including both stock options and
restricted stock; 0.1 million shares were outstanding at November 30, 2001. No
future awards will be granted under this plan.

The Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 1994 Management Ownership Plan (the "1994
Plan") provides for the issuance of RSUs, performance stock units ("PSUs"),
stock options and other equity awards for a period of up to ten years to
eligible employees. A total of 33.3 million shares of Common Stock may be
granted under the 1994 Plan. At November 30, 2001, RSU, PSU and stock option
awards with respect to 31.1 million shares of Common Stock have been made under
the 1994 Plan of which 1.5 million are outstanding and 29.6 million have been
converted to freely transferable Common Stock. The Company will utilize the
remaining authorization of 2.2 million shares to satisfy dividend reinvestment
requirements for outstanding awards and to fund the annual RSU awards for the
Company's non-employee directors.

1996 MANAGEMENT OWNERSHIP PLAN. During 1996, the Company's stockholders approved
the 1996 Management Ownership Plan (the "1996 Plan") under which awards similar
to those of the 1994 Plan may be granted, and under which up to 42.0 million
shares of Common Stock may be subject to awards. At November 30, 2001, RSU, PSU
and stock option awards with respect to 31.4 million shares of Common Stock have
been made under the 1996 Plan of which 18.9 million are outstanding and 12.5
million have been converted to freely transferable Common Stock.

EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN. The Employee Incentive Plan ("EIP") has provisions
similar to the 1994 Plan and the 1996 Plan, and authorization from the Board of
Directors for the issuance of up to 196.0 million shares of Common Stock which
may be subject to awards. At November 30, 2001, awards with respect to 157.8
million shares of Common Stock have been made under the EIP of which 124.3
million are outstanding and 33.5 million have been converted to freely
transferable Common Stock.


                                       76

<PAGE>


The following is a summary of RSUs outstanding under Holdings' stock-based
incentive plans:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS
                                                                               1994         1996
                                                                               Plan         Plan          EIP        Total
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                    <C>             <C>         <C>          <C>

BALANCE, NOVEMBER 30, 1998                                                23,391,032    3,172,476   53,790,244    80,353,752
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Granted                                                                      386,422    2,376,634   13,960,994    16,724,050
Canceled                                                                    (122,826)     (59,734)  (3,678,534)   (3,861,094)
Exchanged for stock without restrictions                                  (9,375,418)     (41,758)    (733,752)  (10,150,928)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, NOVEMBER 30, 1999                                                14,279,210    5,447,618   63,338,952    83,065,780
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Granted                                                                       56,503    2,730,011   19,434,315    22,220,829
Canceled                                                                    (180,445)    (490,009)  (2,746,069)   (3,416,523)
Exchanged for stock without restrictions                                 (11,760,416)               (7,487,129)  (19,247,545)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, NOVEMBER 30, 2000                                                 2,394,852    7,687,620   72,540,069    82,622,541
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Granted                                                                        6,455       73,093   15,212,899    15,292,447
Canceled                                                                  (1,049,608)    (898,037)  (1,321,180)   (3,268,825)
Exchanged for stock without restrictions                                    (388,967)    (662,854) (17,137,271)  (18,189,092)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, NOVEMBER 30, 2001                                                   962,732    6,199,822   69,294,517    76,457,071
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

Eligible employees receive RSUs as a portion of their total compensation in lieu
of cash. There is no further cost to employees associated with the RSU awards.
The Company measures compensation cost for RSUs based on the market value of its
Common Stock at the grant date and amortizes this amount to expense over the
applicable vesting periods. RSU awards made to employees have various vesting
provisions and generally convert to unrestricted freely transferable Common
Stock five years from the grant date. Holdings accrues a dividend equivalent on
each RSU outstanding (in the form of additional RSUs), based on dividends
declared on its Common Stock.

In 2001, the Company delivered 11.8 million shares of its Common Stock to
current and former employees in satisfaction of RSUs awarded in 1996.
Substantially all of the shares delivered were funded from the RSU Trust. The
Company also received 3.4 million shares from current and former employees in
satisfaction of applicable tax withholding requirements. Shares received were
recorded as Treasury stock at an aggregate value of $257 million.

Of the RSUs outstanding at November 30, 2001, approximately 21.9 million RSUs
were vested, approximately 14.7 million RSUs will vest during fiscal 2002, and
the remaining RSUs will vest subsequent to November 30, 2002.

Included in the previous table are PSUs the Company has awarded to certain
senior officers. The number of PSUs which may be earned is dependent upon the
achievement of certain performance levels within predetermined performance
periods. During the performance period these PSUs are accounted for as variable
awards. At the end of a performance period, any PSUs earned will convert
one-for-one to RSUs which then vest in three, four or five years. As of November
30, 2001, approximately 9.1 million PSUs have been awarded to date, subject to
vesting and transfer restrictions. The compensation cost for the RSUs payable in
satisfaction of PSUs is accrued over the combined performance and vesting
periods.

Total compensation cost recognized during 2001, 2000 and 1999 for the Company's
stock-based awards was approximately $544 million, $520 million and $363
million, respectively.

At November 30, 2001 and 2000, approximately 14.8 million and 18.0 million stock
options, respectively, were exercisable at weighted-average prices of $25.04 and
$22.49, respectively.

                                       77

<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

STOCK OPTIONS
                                                                                                     Weighted-
                                                                                                      Average
                                         1994  Replacement         1996                               Exercise    Expiration
                                         Plan         Plan         Plan        EIP        Total         Price       Dates
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>           <C>        <C>          <C>         <C>               <C>        <C>

BALANCE, NOVEMBER 30, 1998          2,286,902      944,306   10,549,670   11,543,340   25,324,218        $17.32   2/99-11/08
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Granted                                56,238                 4,300,000   16,881,168   21,237,406        $27.16
Exercised                            (889,598)    (330,568)                 (234,560)  (1,454,726)       $11.10
Canceled                              (34,560)      (3,670)    (200,000)    (589,912)    (828,142)       $22.12
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, NOVEMBER 30, 1999          1,418,982      610,068   14,649,670   27,600,036   44,278,756        $22.15   6/00-11/09
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Granted                                37,520                 6,600,000   18,469,555   25,107,075        $34.89
Exercised                            (805,600)    (257,500)  (5,139,586)  (3,273,872)  (9,476,558)       $17.04
Canceled                             (165,600)        (238)  (2,300,000)  (2,875,796)  (5,341,634)       $24.89
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, NOVEMBER 30, 2000            485,302      352,330   13,810,084   39,919,923   54,567,639        $28.62   2/01-11/10
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Granted                                49,102                 2,550,000   18,930,742   21,529,844        $53.28
Exercised                             (10,000)    (209,234)  (3,645,584)  (2,396,212)  (6,261,030)       $16.49
Canceled                                            (4,762)               (1,437,477)  (1,442,239)       $27.01
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, NOVEMBER 30, 2001            524,404      138,334   12,714,500   55,016,976   68,394,214        $37.53   1/02-11/11
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

The weighted-average remaining contractual life of the stock options outstanding
at November 30, 2001 is 5.84 years. The exercise price for all stock options
awarded has been equal to the market price of Common Stock on the day of grant.

The following table provides further details relating to Holdings' stock options
outstanding as of November 30, 2001:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                      OPTIONS OUTSTANDING                    OPTIONS EXERCISABLE
                                       -------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------
                                                                     Weighted-                                    Weighted-
                                                                     Average                                       Average
                                                       Weighted-     Remaining                    Weighted-        Remaining
Range of                                  Number       Average      Contractual       Number       Average        Contractual
Exercise Prices                        Outstanding  Exercise Price  Life (in years) Exercisable  Exercise Price  Life (in years)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>               <C>          <C>            <C>            <C>               <C>

$ 9.00-$ 9.99                              505,454       $ 9.00         1.94          505,454       $ 9.00           1.94
$10.00-$19.99                              293,573       $16.21         1.47          254,563       $15.65           0.47
$20.00-$29.99                           23,413,598       $23.28         3.78        9,322,884       $22.09           2.91
$30.00-$39.99                           17,268,804       $33.52         4.63        4,557,814       $32.75           3.20
$40.00-$49.99                           14,295,658       $47.83         9.17          120,014       $49.06           4.62
$50.00-$59.99                            4,199,102       $51.37         4.06
$60.00-$69.99                            8,418,025       $63.40         9.65
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, NOVEMBER 30, 2001              68,394,214       $37.53         5.84       14,760,729       $25.04           2.94
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>


                                       78

<PAGE>

The disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 require companies which elect not to
record the fair value of stock-based compensation awards in the Consolidated
Statement of Income to provide pro forma disclosures of net income and earnings
per share in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as if the fair
value of stock-based compensation had been recorded. The Company utilized the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model to quantify the pro forma effects on net
income and earnings per common share of the fair value of the stock options
granted and outstanding during 2001, 2000 and 1999. Based on the results of the
model, the weighted-average fair value of the stock options granted was $13.54,
$9.91 and $6.99 for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The weighted-average
assumptions which were used for 2001, 2000 and 1999 included risk-free interest
rates of 4.16%, 6.27% and 5.25%, an expected life of 4.5 years, 3.6 years and
3.5 years, and expected volatility of 30%, 35% and 35%, respectively. In
addition, annual dividends of $0.28, $0.22 and $0.18 were assumed for the 2001,
2000 and 1999 options, respectively.

The Company's 2001, 2000 and 1999 pro forma net income would have been $1,183
million, $1,725 million and $1,091 million, respectively, compared to actual net
income of $1,255 million, $1,775 million and $1,132 million, respectively. Pro
forma earnings per common share for 2001, 2000 and 1999 would have been $4.20,
$6.32 and $3.99, respectively, compared to actual earnings per common share of
$4.38, $6.38 and $4.08, respectively. The pro forma amounts reflect the effects
of the Company's stock option grants and the 15% purchase discount from market
value offered to the Company's employees who participate in the ESPP.

NOTE 9.  EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

Earnings per share was calculated as follows:


EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


Three years ended
In millions, except for per share data                                                       2001         2000         1999
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                      <C>           <C>          <C>

NUMERATOR:
    Net income                                                                             $1,255       $1,775       $1,132
    Preferred stock dividends                                                                  94           96           95
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Numerator for basic earnings per share--income
    available to common stockholders                                                       $1,161       $1,679       $1,037
Convertible preferred stock dividends                                                           -            8           17
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Numerator for diluted earnings per share--income available to common stockholders
    (adjusted for assumed conversion of preferred stock)                                   $1,161       $1,687       $1,054
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DENOMINATOR:
Denominator for basic earnings per share--weighted-average shares                             243.1        243.8        243.0
Effect of dilutive securities:
    Employee stock options                                                                     16.2         13.0          6.2
    Restricted stock units                                                                      6.0          5.0          3.8
    Preferred shares assumed converted into common                                              -            2.4          5.6
Dilutive potential common shares                                                               22.2         20.4         15.6
    Denominator for diluted earnings per share--adjusted weighted-average shares              265.3        264.2        258.6
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE                                                                   $    4.77    $    6.89    $    4.27
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE                                                                 $    4.38    $    6.38    $    4.08
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>


                                       79
<PAGE>

For 2000 and 1999, Convertible Voting Preferred Shares were convertible into
common shares at a conversion price of approximately $61.50 per share. However,
for purposes of calculating dilutive earnings per share, preferred shares were
assumed to be converted into common shares when basic earnings per share exceed
preferred dividends per share obtainable upon conversion (approximately $3.08 on
an annualized basis).

NOTE 10.  CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

The Company operates globally through a network of subsidiaries, with several
subject to regulatory requirements. In the United States, LBI, as a registered
broker-dealer, is subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Rule
15c3-1, the Net Capital Rule, which requires LBI to maintain net capital of not
less than the greater of 2% of aggregate debit items arising from customer
transactions, as defined, or 4% of funds required to be segregated for
customers' regulated commodity accounts, as defined. At November 30, 2001, LBI's
regulatory net capital, as defined, of $1,771 million exceeded the minimum
requirement by $1,589 million.

LBIE, a United Kingdom registered broker-dealer and subsidiary of Holdings, is
subject to the capital requirements of the Securities and Futures Authority
("SFA") of the United Kingdom. Financial resources, as defined, must exceed the
total financial resources requirement of the SFA. At November 30, 2001, LBIE's
financial resources of approximately $2,389 million exceeded the minimum
requirement by approximately $703 million. Lehman Brothers Japan Inc.'s Tokyo
branch, a regulated broker-dealer, is subject to the capital requirements of the
Financial Services Agency and at November 30, 2001, had net capital of
approximately $302 million which was approximately $129 million in excess of the
specified levels required. Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB (the "Bank"), the Company's
thrift subsidiary, is regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision ("OTS"). The
Bank exceeds all regulatory capital requirements and is considered well
capitalized by the OTS. Certain other non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to
various securities, commodities and banking regulations and capital adequacy
requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the
countries in which they operate. At November 30, 2001, these other subsidiaries
were in compliance with their applicable local capital adequacy requirements. In
addition, the Company's "AAA" rated derivatives subsidiaries, Lehman Brothers
Financial Products Inc. ("LBFP") and Lehman Brothers Derivative Products Inc.
("LBDP"), have established certain capital and operating restrictions which are
reviewed by various rating agencies. At November 30, 2001, LBFP and LBDP each
had capital which exceeded the requirement of the most stringent rating agency
by approximately $68 million and $27 million, respectively.

The regulatory rules referred to above, and certain covenants contained in
various debt agreements, may restrict Holdings' ability to withdraw capital from
its regulated subsidiaries, which in turn could limit its ability to pay
dividends to shareholders. At November 30, 2001, approximately $5.3 billion of
net assets of subsidiaries were restricted as to the payment of dividends to
Holdings.


                                       80


<PAGE>

NOTE 11.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

The Company provides various pension plans for the majority of its employees
worldwide. In addition, the Company provides certain other postretirement
benefits, primarily health care and life insurance, to eligible employees. The
following summarizes these plans:

EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                  Pension Benefits                      Postretirement Benefits
                                                                     NOVEMBER 30                             NOVEMBER 30
                                                                --------------------                   --------------------------
In millions,
Except for weighted-average                                        2001         2000                      2001         2000
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                               <C>          <C>                       <C>         <C>

CHANGE IN BENEFIT OBLIGATION
Benefit obligation at beginning of year                            $667         $654                      $ 50         $ 47
Service cost before expenses                                         15           14                         1            1
Interest cost                                                        49           46                         3            4
Actuarial (gain) loss                                                67           (5)                                     1
Change due to discount rate                                           4                                      3
Benefits paid                                                       (24)         (23)                       (4)          (3)
Foreign currency exchange rate changes                               (2)         (19)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Benefit obligation at end of year                                  $776         $667                      $ 53         $ 50
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHANGE IN PLAN ASSETS
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year                     $914         $918
Actual return on plan assets, net of expenses                       (88)          36
Employer contribution                                                 2            2
Benefits paid                                                       (24)         (23)
Foreign currency exchange rate changes                               (1)         (19)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fair value of plan assets at end of year                           $803         $914
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Funded (underfunded) status                                        $ 27         $247                     $ (53)         $(50)
Unrecognized net actuarial (gain) loss                              284           31                       (19)          (22)
Unrecognized prior service cost (credit)                             20           17                        (4)           (5)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid (accrued) benefit cost                                     $331         $295                     $ (76)         $(77)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WEIGHTED-AVERAGE ASSUMPTIONS
Discount rate                                                     6.89%        7.42%                     7.25%        7.75%
Expected return on plan assets                                   10.81%       10.88%
Rate of compensation increase                                     4.82%        4.96%                     5.00%        5.00%

</TABLE>

COMPONENTS OF NET PERIODIC BENEFIT COST

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 Pension Benefits               Postretirement Benefits
                                                               Twelve Months Ended               Twelve Months Ended
                                                                   NOVEMBER 30                            NOVEMBER 30
                                                       -------------------------------        -----------------------------
In millions                                                   2001     2000     1999             2001     2000     1999
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>      <C>      <C>              <C>      <C>      <C>

Service cost                                                  $ 15     $ 14     $ 22             $  1     $  1     $  1
Interest cost                                                   49       46       45                3        4        4
Expected return on plan assets                                 (97)     (96)     (77)               -        -        -
Recognized net actuarial (gain) loss                             -        1        2               (1)      (2)      (2)
Unrecognized prior service cost (credit)                         1        1        2
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net periodic benefit (income) cost                            $(32)    $(34)    $ (6)            $  3     $  3     $  3
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

                                       81

<PAGE>

For measurement purposes, the annual health care cost trend rate was assumed to
be 6.5% for the year ended November 30, 2002. The rate was assumed to decrease
0.5% per year to 5.5% in the year ended November 30, 2004 and remain at that
level thereafter.

Assumed health care cost trend rates have an effect on the amount reported for
postretirement benefits. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care
cost trend rates would have the following effects:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

In millions                                                            1% Point Increase         1% Point Decrease
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                           <C>                     <C>

Effect on total service and interest cost components in fiscal 2001            $ 0.3                    $(0.3)
Effect on postretirement benefit obligation at November 30, 2001               $ 3.4                    $(3.4)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


NOTE 12.  INCOME TAXES

The Company files a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return reflecting the
income of Holdings and its subsidiaries. The provision for income taxes consists
of the following:

INCOME TAXES

In millions
Twelve months ended November 30             2001         2000         1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CURRENT
    Federal                                $ 491        $ 295        $ 121
    State                                    148           45          117
    Foreign                                  441          577          364
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           1,080          917          602
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEFERRED
    Federal                                 (406)        (114)           2
    State                                    (65)         (54)         (54)
    Foreign                                 (172)          (1)         (93)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Provision for income taxes                 $ 437        $ 748        $ 457
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Income before taxes included ($50) million, $1,287 million and $595 million that
has also been subject to income taxes of foreign jurisdictions for 2001, 2000
and 1999, respectively.

The income tax provision differs from that computed by using the statutory
federal income tax rate for the reasons shown below:

In millions
Twelve months ended November 30               2001         2000         1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Federal income taxes at statutory rate       $ 612        $ 903        $ 571
State and local taxes                           54           (6)          41
Tax-exempt income                             (176)        (130)        (109)
Amortization of goodwill                         2            2            2
Foreign operations                             (55)         (15)          (6)
Other, net                                       -           (6)         (42)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              (643)        (169)        (145)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Provision for income taxes                   $ 437        $ 748        $ 457
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                       82

<PAGE>

The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2001 was primarily due to a greater
impact of permanent differences due to a decrease in the level of pretax income,
an increase in tax-exempt income and a higher level of income from foreign
operations.

Income tax benefit of approximately $549 million, $373 million and $90 million
were allocated to Additional paid-in capital related to various employee
compensation plans for 2001, 2000 and 1999. In addition, the Company recorded
$(1) million, $(8) million and $(11) million of tax (benefits)/provisions from
the translation of foreign currencies, which was recorded directly in
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, for the fiscal years 2001, 2000 and
1999, respectively. These benefits will reduce the amount of current income
taxes payable.

The Company permanently reinvested its earnings in certain foreign subsidiaries.
As of November 30, 2001, $217 million of the Company's accumulated earnings were
permanently reinvested. At current tax rates, additional federal income taxes
(net of available tax credits) of $70 million would become payable if such
income were to be repatriated.

Deferred income taxes are provided for the differences between the tax basis of
assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the Consolidated Financial
Statements. These temporary differences will result in future income or
deductions for income tax purposes and are measured using the enacted tax rates
that will be in effect when such items are expected to reverse. The Company
provides for deferred income taxes on undistributed earnings of foreign
subsidiaries which are not permanently reinvested.

At November 30, 2001 and 2000 the deferred tax assets and liabilities consisted
of the following:

DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

In millions
November 30                                                        2001         2000
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                             <C>          <C>
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS
Liabilities/accruals not currently deductible                    $  459       $  439
Deferred compensation                                               782          641
Unrealized trading activity                                         101           75
Foreign tax credits                                                 168           33
Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries (net of credits)     241           12
NOL carryforwards                                                   113            5
Other                                                               103           95
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                               $  1,967     $  1,300
Less: Valuation allowance                                           (18)         (18)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total deferred tax assets net of valuation allowance       $  1,949     $  1,282
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
Excess tax over financial depreciation                         $   (119)   $    (121)
Pension and retirement costs                                        (96)         (78)
Other                                                               (55)         (57)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total deferred tax liabilities                             $   (270)    $   (256)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net Deferred Tax Assets                                        $  1,679     $  1,026
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

The net deferred tax assets are included in Other assets in the accompanying
Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition.

The valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets at November 30,
2001 and 2000 will reduce goodwill if future circumstances permit recognition.
The valuation allowance relates to temporary differences resulting from the 1988
acquisition of E.F. Hutton Group, Inc. (now known as LB I Group Inc.) which are
subject to separate company limitations. If future circumstances permit the
recognition of the acquired tax benefit, then goodwill will be reduced.

The Company has approximately $242 million of NOL carryforwards, substantially
all of which are scheduled to expire in 2021. The Company also has $168 million
of foreign tax credit carryforwards which will expire in 2006.


                                       83

<PAGE>

NOTE 13.  SECURITIES PLEDGED AS COLLATERAL

The Company enters into secured borrowing and lending transactions to finance
trading inventory positions, obtain securities for settlement, and meet
customers' needs. The company primarily receives collateral in connection with
resale agreements, securities borrowed transactions, customer margin loans and
other loans. The Company is generally permitted to sell or repledge these
securities held as collateral and use the securities to secure repurchase
agreements, enter into securities lending transactions or deliver to
counterparties to cover short positions. The Company carries secured financing
agreements for financial reporting purposes on a net basis when permitted under
the provision of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretations No. 41
("FIN 41"). At November 30, 2001, the fair value of securities received as
collateral and securities owned that have not been sold or repledged totaled
approximately $38 billion. The gross fair value of securities received as
collateral where the Company was permitted to sell or repledge the securities
was approximately $245 billion. Of this collateral, approximately $234 billion
has been sold or repledged, generally as collateral under repurchase agreements
or to cover securities and other financial instruments sold but not yet
purchased.

Securities owned pledged as collateral at November 30, 2001 for which the
counterparty has the right to sell or repledge are comprised of the following
amounts:

In millions
November 30                                           2001
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

Securities and other financial instruments owned:
    Corporate equities                             $15,178
    Corporate debt and other                        10,051
    Governments and agencies                         2,596
    Certificates of deposit and other
        money market instruments                       692
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                              $28,517


The carrying value of securities and other financial instruments owned that have
been pledged to counterparties where those counterparties do not have the right
to sell or repledge are as follows:

In millions
November 30                                           2001
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

Securities and other financial instruments owned:
    Mortgages and mortgage-backed                  $20,776
    Governments and agencies                        17,672
    Corporate debt and other                         7,199
    Corporate equities                               4,098
    Certificates of deposit and other
        money market instruments                     2,173
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                              $51,918
- -----------------------------------------------------------------


NOTE 14.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Derivatives are financial instruments whose value is based upon an underlying
asset (e.g., Treasury bond), index (e.g., S&P 500) or reference rate (e.g.,
LIBOR). Over-the-counter ("OTC") derivative products are privately negotiated
contractual agreements that can be tailored to meet individual client needs and
include forwards, swaps and certain options including caps, collars and floors.
Exchange-traded derivative products are standardized contracts transacted
through regulated exchanges and include futures and certain option contracts
listed on an exchange.

In the normal course of business, the Company enters into derivative
transactions both in a trading capacity and as an end-user. Acting in a trading
capacity, the Company enters into derivative transactions to satisfy the needs
of its clients and to manage the Company's own exposure to market and credit
risks resulting from its trading activities (collectively, "Trading-Related
Derivative Activities"). As an end-user, the Company primarily enters into
interest rate swap and option contracts to adjust the interest rate nature of
its funding sources from fixed to floating rates, and to change the index upon
which floating interest rates are based (e.g., Prime to LIBOR) (collectively,
"End-User Derivative Activities"). There is an extensive range of derivative
products available in the marketplace, which can vary from a simple forward
foreign exchange contract to a complex derivative instrument with multiple risk
characteristics involving the aggregation of the risk characteristics of a
number of derivative product types including swap products, options



                                       84

<PAGE>

and forwards. Listed below are examples of various derivative product types
along with a brief discussion of the performance mechanics of certain specific
derivative instruments.

SWAP PRODUCTS. Interest rate swap products include interest rate and currency
swaps, leveraged swaps, swap options, other interest rate option products
including caps, collars and floors, and credit default swaps. An interest rate
swap is a negotiated OTC contract in which two parties agree to exchange
periodic interest payments for a defined period, calculated based upon a
predetermined notional amount. Interest payments are usually exchanged on a net
basis throughout the duration of the swap contract. A currency swap is an OTC
agreement to exchange a fixed amount of one currency for a specified amount of a
second currency at the outset and completion of the swap term. Leveraged swaps
involve the multiplication of the interest rate factor upon which the interest
payment streams are based (e.g., Party A pays three times the six-month LIBOR).
Caps are contractual commitments that require the writer to pay the purchaser
the amount by which an interest reference rate exceeds a defined contractual
rate, if any, at specified times during the contract. Conversely, a floor is a
contractual commitment that requires the writer to pay the amount by which a
defined contractual rate exceeds an interest reference rate at specified times
over the life of the contract, if any. Equity swaps are contractual agreements
whereby one party agrees to receive the appreciation (or depreciation) value
over a strike price on an equity investment in return for paying another rate,
which is usually based upon equity index movements or interest rates. Commodity
swaps are contractual commitments to exchange the fixed price of a commodity for
a floating price (which is usually the prevailing spot price) throughout the
swap term. Credit derivatives are contractual agreements that provide insurance
against a credit event of one or more referenced credits. The nature of the
credit event is established by the buyer and seller at the inception of the
transaction, and such events include bankruptcy, insolvency, rating agency
downgrade and failure to meet payment obligations when due. The buyer of the
credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return for a contingent payment by the
seller (insurer) following a credit event. The Company acts as both a buyer and
seller of credit derivatives.

OPTIONS. Option contracts provide the option purchaser (holder) with the right
but not the obligation to buy or sell a financial instrument, commodity or
currency at a predetermined exercise price (strike price) during a defined
period (American Option) or at a specified date (European Option). The option
purchaser pays a premium to the option seller (writer) for the right to exercise
the option. The option seller is obligated to buy (put) or sell (call) the item
underlying the contract at a set price, if the option purchaser chooses to
exercise. Option contracts also exist for various indices and are similar to
options on a security or other instrument except that, rather than physical
settling with delivery of the underlying instrument, they are cash settled. As a
purchaser of an option contract, the Company is subject to credit risk, since
the counterparty is obligated to make payments under the terms of the option
contract, if the Company exercises the option. As the writer of an option
contract, the Company is not subject to credit risk but is subject to market
risk, since the Company is obligated to make payments under the terms of the
option contract if exercised.

Option contracts may be exchange-traded or OTC. Exchange-traded options are the
obligations of the exchange and generally have standardized terms and
performance mechanics. In contrast, all of the terms of an OTC option including
the method of settlement, term, strike price, premium and security are
determined by negotiation of the parties.

FUTURES AND FORWARDS. Futures contracts are exchange-traded contractual
commitments to either receive (purchase) or deliver (sell) a standard amount or
value of a financial instrument or commodity at a specified future date and
price. Maintaining a futures contract requires the Company to deposit with the
exchange an amount of cash or other specified assets as security for its
obligation. Therefore, the potential for losses from exchange-traded products is
limited. As of November 30, 2001 the Company had approximately $2.6 billion on
deposit with futures exchanges consisting of cash and securities (customer and
proprietary). Additionally, futures exchanges generally require the daily cash
settlement of unrealized gains/losses on open contracts with the futures
exchange. Therefore, futures contracts provide a reduced funding alternative to
purchasing the underlying cash position in the marketplace. Futures contracts
may be settled by physical delivery of the underlying asset or cash settlement
(for index futures) on the settlement date or by entering into an offsetting
futures contract with the futures exchange prior to the settlement date.

                                       85

<PAGE>

Forwards are OTC contractual commitments to purchase or sell a specified amount
of a financial instrument, foreign currency or commodity on a future date at a
predetermined price. TBAs are forward contracts which give the purchaser/seller
an obligation to obtain/deliver mortgage securities in the future. Therefore,
TBAs subject the holder to both interest rate risk and principal prepayment
risk.

TRADING-RELATED DERIVATIVE ACTIVITIES. Derivatives are subject to various risks
similar to other financial instruments including market, credit and operational
risk. In addition, the Company may be exposed to legal risks related to its
derivative activities including the possibility that a transaction may be
unenforceable under applicable law. The risks of derivatives should not be
viewed in isolation, but rather should be considered on an aggregate basis along
with the Company's other trading-related activities. The Company manages the
risks associated with derivatives on an aggregate basis along with the risks
associated with its proprietary trading and market-making activities in cash
instruments as part of its firmwide risk management policies.

Derivatives are generally based upon notional amounts. Notional amounts are not
recorded on-balance sheet, but rather are utilized solely as a basis for
determining future cash flows to be exchanged. Therefore, notional amounts
provide a measure of the Company's involvement with such instruments, but are
not indicative of actual or potential risk.

As of November 30, 2001 and 2000, the Company had total notional/contract
amounts of trading related derivative activities of $5,394 billion and $3,417
billion, respectively. Of the total notional amounts approximately $4,917
billion and $3,171 billion are over-the-counter and $477 billion and $246
billion are exchange-traded as of November 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The
total weighted-average maturity at November 30, 2001, for over-the-counter and
exchange-traded contracts was 4.39 years and 0.71 years, respectively.
Approximately $1,674 billion of the notional/contract amount of the Company's
Trading-Related Derivative Activities mature within the year ending November 30,
2002, of which approximately 47% have maturities of less than one month.

The Company records its Trading-Related Derivative Activities on a
mark-to-market basis with realized and unrealized gains and losses recognized
currently in Principal transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Unrealized gains and losses on derivative contracts are recorded on a net basis
in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition for those transactions with
counterparties executed under a legally enforceable master netting agreement and
are netted across products when such provisions are stated in the master netting
agreement. The Company offers equity, fixed income and foreign exchange products
to its customers. Because of the integrated nature of the market for such
products, each product area trades cash instruments as well as derivative
products.

Listed in the following table is the fair value of the Company's Trading-Related
Derivative Activities as of November 30, 2001 and 2000. Assets and liabilities
represent net unrealized gains (amounts receivable from counterparties) and net
unrealized losses (amounts payable to counterparties), respectively.

FAIR VALUE OF TRADING-RELATED DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                   Fair Value*                Fair Value*
                                                                               November 30, 2001**         November 30, 2000
In millions                                                                   Assets  Liabilities       Assets  Liabilities
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                         <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>

Interest rate, currency and credit default swaps and options
    (including caps, collars and floors)                                     $ 6,482      $ 6,485      $ 4,349      $ 3,390
Foreign exchange forward contracts and options                                   740        1,111          902        1,361
Other fixed income securities contracts
    (including futures contracts, options and TBAs)                              747          226          496          418
Equity contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options)                3,586        2,502        3,836        3,399
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                             $11,555      $10,324      $ 9,583      $ 8,568
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>


*   Amounts represent carrying value (exclusive of collateral) and do not
    include receivables or payables related to exchange-traded futures
    contracts.


**  2001 information includes end-user derivative activity on a mark-to-market
    basis in accordance with SFAS No. 133.


                                       86

<PAGE>

Assets included in the table above represent the Company's unrealized gains, net
of unrealized losses for situations in which the Company has a master netting
agreement. Similarly, liabilities represent net amounts owed to counterparties.
Therefore, the fair value of assets/liabilities related to derivative contracts
at November 30, 2001 and 2000 represents the Company's net receivable/payable
for derivative financial instruments before consideration of collateral.
Included within the $11,555 million fair value of assets at November 30, 2001
was $10,555 million related to swaps and other OTC contracts and $1,000 million
related to exchange-traded option and warrant contracts. Included within the
$9,583 million fair value of assets at November 30, 2000 was $8,643 million
related to swaps and other OTC contracts and $940 million related to
exchange-traded option and warrant contracts.

The primary difference in risks related to OTC and exchange-traded contracts is
credit risk. OTC contracts contain credit risk for unrealized gains from various
counterparties for the duration of the contract, net of collateral. With respect
to OTC contracts, including swaps, the Company views its net credit exposure to
third-parties to be $7,909 million at November 30, 2001, representing the fair
value of the Company's OTC contracts in an unrealized gain position, after
consideration of collateral.

Counterparties to the Company's OTC derivative products are primarily financial
intermediaries (U.S. and foreign banks), securities firms, corporations,
governments and their agencies, finance companies, insurance companies,
investment companies and pension funds. Collateral held related to OTC contracts
generally includes cash and U.S. government and federal agency securities.
Presented below is an analysis of the Company's net credit exposure at November
30, 2001 for OTC contracts based upon actual ratings made by external rating
agencies or by equivalent ratings established and utilized by the Company's
Credit Risk Management Department.

Counterparty      S&P/                      Net Credit
Risk Rating       Moody's Equivalent        Exposure
- ---------------------------------------------------------------

1                 AAA/Aaa                        19%
2                 AA-/Aa3 or higher              30%
3                 A-/A3 or higher                30%
4                 BBB-/Baa3 or higher            16%
5                 BB-/Ba3 or higher               3%
6                 B+/B1 or lower                  2%


The Company's OTC contracts credit exposure by maturity is set forth below:

                  Less                                    Greater
Counterparty      than         2-5          5-10          than
Risk Rating       1 Year       Years        Years         10 Years     Total
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1                   3%            6%           5%           5%          19%
2                  11%           14%           3%           2%          30%
3                   9%           12%           3%           6%          30%
4                   5%            4%           2%           5%          16%
5                   1%            1%           -            1%           3%
6                   2%            -            -            -            2%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total              31%           37%          13%          19%         100%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The Company is also subject to credit risk related to its exchange-traded
derivative contracts. Exchange-traded contracts, including futures and certain
options, are transacted directly on the exchange. To protect against the
potential for a default, all exchange clearinghouses impose net capital
requirements for their membership. Additionally, exchange clearinghouses require
counterparties to futures contracts to post margin upon the origination of the
contracts and for any changes in the market value of the contracts on a daily
basis (certain foreign exchanges provide for settlement within three days).
Therefore, the potential for losses from exchange-traded products is limited.

END-USER DERIVATIVE ACTIVITIES. The Company utilizes a variety of derivative
products for non-trading purposes as an end-user to modify the interest rate
characteristics of its long-term debt portfolio and certain secured financing
activities. In this regard, the Company primarily enters into fair value hedges
utilizing interest rate swaps to convert a substantial portion of the Company's
fixed rate long-term debt and certain term fixed rate secured financing
activities to a floating interest rate. The ineffective portion of the fair
value hedges were included in Interest Expense on the consolidated statement of
income and were not material to the Company's results for the twelve months
ended November 30, 2001. At November 30, 2001 and 2000, the notional amounts of
the Company's end-user activities related to its long-term debt obligations were
approximately $35.1 billion and $26.9 billion, respectively. (For a further
discussion of the Company's long-term debt related end-user derivative
activities see Note 4.)

The Company also utilizes derivative products as an end-user to modify its
interest rate exposure associated with its secured financing activities,
including securities purchased under agreements to resell, securities borrowed,
securities sold under agreements to repurchase and securities loaned. As with
the

                                       87

<PAGE>

Company's long-term debt, its secured financing activities expose the Company to
interest rate risk. The Company, as an end-user, manages the interest rate risk
related to these activities by utilizing derivative financial instruments,
including interest rate swaps and purchased options. The Company designates
certain specific derivative transactions against specific assets and liabilities
with matching maturities. At November 30, 2001 and 2000, the Company, as an
end-user, utilized derivative financial instruments with an aggregate notional
amount of $8.8 billion and $8.5 billion, respectively, to modify the rate
characteristics of its secured financing activities. The total notional amount
of these agreements had a weighted-average maturity of 5.1 years and 3.5 years
as of November 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

NOTE 15.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

SFAS No. 107 "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments" requires
the Company to report the fair value of financial instruments, as defined.
Assets and liabilities that are carried at fair value include all of the
Company's trading assets and liabilities including derivative financial
instruments used for trading purposes as described in Note 1, which are recorded
as securities and other financial instruments owned and securities and other
financial instruments sold but not yet purchased.

Assets and liabilities, which are recorded at contractual amounts that
approximate market or fair value include cash and cash equivalents, cash and
securities segregated and on deposit for regulatory and other purposes,
receivables, certain other assets, commercial paper and short-term debt, and
payables. The market values of such items are not materially sensitive to shifts
in market interest rates because of the limited term to maturity of these
instruments and their variable interest rates.

In 2001, the Company's long-term debt is recorded at historical amounts, unless
designated as the hedged item in a fair value hedge under SFAS 133. The Company
carries such hedged debt on a modified mark-to-market basis, which amount could
differ from fair value. In 2000, the Company's long-term debt is recorded at
contractual rates.

The following table provides a summary of the fair value of the Company's
long-term debt and related end-user derivative activities. The fair value of the
Company's long-term debt was estimated using either quoted market prices or
discounted cash flow analyses based on the Company's current borrowing rates for
similar types of borrowing arrangements.

In millions                                           2001         2000
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Carrying value of long-term debt                   $38,301      $35,233
Fair value of long-term debt                       $38,458      $35,193
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Unrecognized net (loss) gain
    on long-term debt                              $ (157)        $  40
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The Company carries its secured financing activities, including securities
purchased under agreements to resell, securities borrowed, securities sold under
agreements to repurchase, and securities loaned, at their original contract
amount plus accrued interest. As the majority of such financing activities are
short-term in nature, carrying value approximates fair value. As with the
Company's long-term debt, its secured financing activities expose the Company to
interest rate risk.

At November 30, 2001 and 2000, the Company, as an end-user, utilized derivative
financial instruments with an aggregate notional amount of $8.8 billion and $8.5
billion, respectively, to modify the interest rate characteristics of its
secured financing activities. At November 30, 2001, the carrying value of the
secured financing activities designated as a fair value hedge, approximated its
fair value. At November 30, 2000, the unrecognized net losses on derivatives
associated with certain financing activities were $22 million, which were
substantively offset by unrecognized net gains on related secured financing
activities. Additionally, at November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000, the
Company had approximately $20 million and $8 million, respectively, of
unrecognized losses related to approximately $8.5 billion for both years of
long-term fixed rate repurchase agreements.

                                       88

<PAGE>

NOTE 16.  OTHER COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

As of November 30, 2001 and 2000, the Company was contingently liable for $1.1
billion and $2.1 billion, respectively, of letters of credit, primarily used to
provide collateral for securities and commodities borrowed and to satisfy margin
deposits at option and commodity exchanges, and other guarantees.

In connection with its financing activities, the Company had outstanding
commitments under certain lending arrangements of approximately $2.1 billion and
$3.2 billion, at November 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. These commitments
require borrowers to provide acceptable collateral, as defined in the
agreements, when amounts are drawn under the lending facilities. Advances made
under the above lending arrangements are typically at variable interest rates
and generally provide for over-collateralization based upon the borrowers'
creditworthiness.

In addition, the Company, through its high grade and high yield sales, trading
and underwriting activities, makes commitments to extend credit in loan
syndication transactions. The Company utilizes various hedging and funding
strategies to actively manage its market, credit and liquidity exposures on
these commitments. In addition, total commitments are not indicative of actual
risk or funding requirements, as the commitments may not be drawn or fully
utilized. These commitments and any related draw downs of these facilities
typically have fixed maturity dates and are contingent upon certain
representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the
borrower.

At November 30, 2001 and 2000, the Company had net lending commitments to
investment grade borrowers of $4.1 billion (gross commitments of $5.9 billion
less $1.8 billion of associated hedges) and $4.3 billion ($4.4 billion of gross
commitments and $0.1 billion of associated hedges), respectively. Lending
commitments to non-investment grade borrowers totaled $1.4 billion and $1.3
billion at November 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In addition, at November
30, 2001 and 2000, the Company has pre-arranged funding facilities with third
party lenders of $4.9 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, available to it to
fund draw downs against these commitments. These funding facilities contain
limits for certain concentrations of counterparty, industry or credit ratings of
the underlying loans.

As of November 30, 2001, the Company had pledged securities, primarily fixed
income, having a market value of approximately $31.8 billion, as collateral for
securities borrowed having a market value of approximately $31.2 billion.

At November 30, 2001, the Company had commitments to enter into forward starting
secured resale and repurchase agreements of $52.3 billion and $26.5 billion,
respectively, as compared to secured resale and repurchase agreements of $51.9
billion and $17.0 billion, respectively, as of November 30, 2000.

Securities and other financial instruments sold but not yet purchased represent
obligations of the Company to purchase the securities at prevailing market
prices. Therefore, the future satisfaction of such obligations may be for an
amount greater or less than the amount recorded. The ultimate gain or loss is
dependent upon the price at which the underlying financial instrument is
purchased to settle the Company's obligation under the sale commitment.

In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to off-balance sheet
credit and market risk as a result of executing, financing and settling various
customer security and commodity transactions. Off-balance sheet risk arises from
the potential that customers or counterparties fail to satisfy their obligations
and that the collateral obtained is insufficient. In such instances, the Company
may be required to purchase or sell financial instruments at unfavorable market
prices. The Company seeks to control these risks by obtaining margin balances
and other collateral in accordance with regulatory and internal guidelines.

At November 30, 2001 and 2000, the Company had commitments to invest up to $555
million and $357 million, respectively, directly and through partnerships in
private equity related investments. These commitments will be funded as required
through the end of the respective investment periods, principally expiring in
2004.

Subsidiaries of the Company, as general partner, are contingently liable for the
obligations of certain public and private limited partnerships organized as
pooled investment funds or engaged primarily in real estate activities. In the
opinion of

                                       89

<PAGE>

the Company, contingent liabilities, if any, for the obligations of such
partnerships will not in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on the
Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.

In the normal course of its business, the Company has been named a defendant in
a number of lawsuits and other legal proceedings. After considering all relevant
facts, available insurance coverage and the advice of counsel, in the opinion of
the Company such litigation will not, in the aggregate, have a material adverse
effect on the Company's consolidated financial position, but may be material to
the Company's operating results for any particular period, depending on the
level of income for such period.

CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK As a leading global investment bank, the Company
is actively involved in securities underwriting, brokerage, distribution and
trading. These and other related services are provided on a worldwide basis to a
large and diversified group of clients and customers, including multinational
corporations, governments, emerging growth companies, financial institutions and
individual investors.

A substantial portion of the Company's securities and commodities transactions
is collateralized and is executed with, and on behalf of, commercial banks and
other institutional investors, including other brokers and dealers. The
Company's exposure to credit risk associated with the non-performance of these
customers and counterparties in fulfilling their contractual obligations
pursuant to securities transactions can be directly impacted by volatile or
illiquid trading markets, which may impair the ability of customers and
counterparties to satisfy their obligations to the Company.

Securities and other financial instruments owned by the Company include U.S.
government and agency securities, and securities issued by non-U.S. governments,
which in the aggregate, represented 11% of the Company's total assets at
November 30, 2001. In addition, primarily all of the collateral held by the
Company for resale agreements represented 34% of total assets at November 30,
2001, and consisted of securities issued by the U.S. government, federal
agencies or non-U.S. governments. The Company's most significant industry
concentration is financial institutions, which include other brokers and
dealers, commercial banks and institutional clients. This concentration arises
in the normal course of the Company's business.

LEASE COMMITMENTS The Company leases office space and equipment throughout the
world and is a party to a ground lease with Rock 49th LLC covering 745 Seventh
Avenue, which extends through 2028, and with the Battery Park City Authority
covering 3 World Financial Center, which extends through 2069. Total rent
expense for 2001, 2000 and 1999 was $98 million, $47 million and $37 million,
respectively. Certain leases on office space contain escalation clauses
providing for additional rentals based upon maintenance, utility and tax
increases.

Minimum future rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases (net of
subleases of $182 million) are as follows:

MINIMUM FUTURE RENTAL COMMITMENTS
In millions
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Fiscal 2002                                         $  138
Fiscal 2003                                            128
Fiscal 2004                                            165
Fiscal 2005                                            171
Fiscal 2006                                            175
December 1, 2006 and thereafter                      3,319
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    $4,096
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

During the year, the Company entered into leases at 399 Park Avenue in New York
and Canary Wharf in London which in aggregate total in excess of $2 billion of
future rental commitments, which are included in the table above.



                                       90

<PAGE>

NOTE 17.  SEGMENTS

Lehman Brothers operates in three segments: Investment Banking, Capital Markets,
and Client Services.

The Investment Banking Division provides advice to corporate, institutional and
government clients throughout the world on mergers, acquisitions and other
financial matters. The Division also raises capital for clients by underwriting
public and private offerings of debt and equity securities.

The Capital Markets Division includes the Company's institutional sales,
trading, research and financing activities in equity and fixed income cash and
derivatives products. Through the Division, the Company is a global market-maker
in numerous equity and fixed income products, including U.S., European and Asian
equities, government and agency securities, money market products, corporate
high grade, high yield and emerging market securities, mortgage- and
asset-backed securities, municipal securities, bank loans, foreign exchange and
derivatives products. The Division also includes the Company's risk arbitrage
and secured financing business, as well as realized and unrealized gains and
losses related to the Company's direct private equity investments. The financing
business manages the Company's equity and fixed income matched book activities,
supplies secured financing to institutional clients and customers, and provides
secured funding for the Company's inventory of equity and fixed income products.

Client Services revenues reflect earnings from the Company's private client and
private equity businesses. Private Client revenues reflect the Company's
high-net-worth retail customer flow activities as well as asset management fees
earned from these clients. Private Equity revenues include the management and
incentive fees earned in the Company's role as general partner for thirty-three
Private Equity partnerships. In addition, these revenues also include the
appreciation of its general partnership interests.

The Company's segment information for fiscal years 2001, 2000 and 1999 is
presented below and was developed consistent with the accounting policies used
to prepare the Company's consolidated financial statements.

SEGMENTS
                             Investment      Capital       Client
In millions                     Banking      Markets     Services        Total
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOVEMBER 30, 2001
Net revenue                      $1,925       $4,024       $  787       $6,736
Earnings before taxes(1)(2)      $  373       $1,322       $  180       $1,875
Segment assets (billions)        $  1.7       $240.3       $  5.8       $247.8

NOVEMBER 30, 2000
Net revenue                      $2,179       $4,689       $  839       $7,707
Earnings before taxes(2)         $  499       $1,801       $  279       $2,579
Segment assets (billions)        $  1.3       $218.3       $  5.1       $224.7

NOVEMBER 30, 1999
Net revenue                      $1,664       $3,093       $  583       $5,340
Earnings before taxes(2)         $  509       $  978       $  144       $1,631
Segment assets (billions)        $  0.9       $187.7       $  3.6       $192.2

(1) Excludes the impact of a special charge of $127 million.
(2) And before dividends on preferred securities.


                                       91


<PAGE>

NET REVENUES BY GEOGRAPHIC REGION

In millions
Twelve months ended November 30           2001         2000         1999
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S.                                    $4,241       $4,492       $3,160
Europe                                   1,955        2,389        1,650
Asia Pacific and other                     540          826          530
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                   $6,736       $7,707       $5,340

The following information describes the Company's methods of allocating
consolidated net revenues to geographic regions. Net revenues, if origination or
trading-related, have been distributed based upon the location where the primary
or secondary position was fundamentally risk managed; if fee-related, by the
location of the senior coverage banker; if commission-related, by the location
of the salespeople. In addition, certain revenues associated with domestic
products and services which resulted from relationships with international
clients and customers have been reclassified as international revenues using an
allocation consistent with the Company's internal reporting.


                                       92

<PAGE>

NOTE 18.  QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

The following information represents the Company's unaudited quarterly results
of operations for 2001 and 2000. Certain amounts reflect reclassifications to
conform to the current period's presentation. These quarterly results reflect
all normal recurring adjustments which are, in the opinion of management,
necessary for a fair presentation of the results. Revenues and earnings of the
Company can vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to the nature of the
Company's business activities.

QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


In millions                                             2001                                             2000
                                       ---------------------------------------      ----------------------------------------------
Except per share amounts                Nov. 30    Aug. 31     May 31     Feb. 28     Nov. 30     Aug. 31      May 31    Feb. 29
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>          <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>

Total revenues                           $4,300     $5,057     $6,284      $6,752      $6,414      $7,359      $6,334     $6,340
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest expense                          3,097      3,429      4,262       4,869       4,716       5,307       4,579      4,138
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net revenues                              1,203      1,628      2,022       1,883       1,698       2,052       1,755      2,202
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Non-interest expenses:
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Compensation and benefits               615        830      1,032         960         806       1,067         912      1,145
    Other expenses                          345        363        365         350         338         312         285        263
    Special charge                          127          -          -           -           -           -           -          -
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total non-interest expenses               1,087      1,193      1,397       1,310       1,144       1,379       1,197      1,408
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before taxes and dividends
    on trust preferred securities           116        435        625         573         554         673         558        794
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Provision for income taxes                  (28)       112        181         172         141         202         166        239
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dividends on trust preferred
    securities                               14         14         14          14          14          14          14         14
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                               $  130     $  309     $  430      $  387      $  399      $  457      $  378     $  541
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income applicable to
    common stock                         $  119     $  298     $  369      $  375      $  386      $  444      $  366     $  482
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted-average shares
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Basic                                 241.9      240.4      243.9       246.2       241.9       242.3       246.3      246.1
    Diluted                               261.5      261.8      266.9       270.7       265.4       265.0       265.3      262.4
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings per common share
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Basic                                $ 0.49     $ 1.24     $ 1.51      $ 1.52      $ 1.60      $ 1.83      $ 1.49     $ 1.96
    Diluted                              $ 0.46     $ 1.14     $ 1.38      $ 1.39      $ 1.46      $ 1.68      $ 1.39     $ 1.84
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dividends per common share               $0.070     $0.070     $0.070      $0.070      $0.055      $0.055      $0.055     $0.055
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Book value per common share
    (at period end)                      $31.81     $30.83     $29.93      $28.90      $28.78      $27.58      $25.59     $24.40


</TABLE>


                                       93

<PAGE>

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following table summarizes certain consolidated financial information
included in the audited consolidated financial statements.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


In millions, except per share data, other data and financial ratios
Twelve months ended November 30                       2001         2000         1999         1998         1997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>          <C>         <C>           <C>         <C>


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
Revenues:
    Principal transactions                         $ 2,779      $ 3,713      $ 2,341      $ 1,373      $ 1,461
    Investment banking                               2,000        2,216        1,682        1,441        1,275
    Commissions                                      1,091          944          651          513          423
    Interest and dividends                          16,470       19,440       14,251       16,542       13,635
    Other                                               52          134           64           25           89
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Total revenues                               22,392       26,447       18,989       19,894       16,883
       Interest expense                             15,656       18,740       13,649       15,781       13,010
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Net revenues                                  6,736        7,707        5,340        4,113        3,873
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Non-interest expenses:
    Compensation and benefits                        3,437        3,931        2,707        2,086        1,964
    Other expenses                                   1,424        1,197        1,002          975          972
    Special charge                                    127             -            -            -            -
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total non-interest expenses                    4,988        5,128        3,709        3,061        2,936
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before taxes and dividends
      on trust preferred securities                  1,748        2,579        1,631        1,052          937
Provision for income taxes                             437          748          457          316          290
Dividends on trust preferred securities                 56           56           42            -            -
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                                         $ 1,255      $ 1,775      $ 1,132       $  736      $   647
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income applicable to common stock              $ 1,161      $ 1,679      $ 1,037       $  649       $  572
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION (AT PERIOD END)
Total assets                                      $247,816     $224,720     $192,244     $153,890     $151,705
Total assets excluding matched book(a)             164,538      143,478      130,022      111,509      108,099
Long-term debt(b)                                   38,301       35,233       30,691       27,341       20,261
Preferred securities (subject to mandatory redemption) 710          860          710            -            -
Total stockholders' equity                           8,459        7,781        6,283        5,413        4,523
Total capital(c)                                    47,470       43,874       37,684       32,754       24,784
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PER SHARE DATA(d)
Net income (excluding special charge)               $ 4.64       $ 6.38       $ 4.08       $ 2.60       $ 2.36
Dividends declared per common share                 $ 0.28       $ 0.22       $ 0.18       $ 0.15       $ 0.12
Book value per common share (at period end)        $ 31.81      $ 28.78      $ 22.75      $ 18.53      $ 16.70
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OTHER DATA (AT PERIOD END)
Ratio of total assets to total stockholders'
    equity and preferred securities                  27.0x        26.0x        27.5x        28.4x        33.5x
Ratio of total assets excluding matched book to
    total stockholders' equity and preferred
    securities(a)                                    17.9x        16.6x        18.6x        20.6x        23.9x
Employees                                           13,090       11,326       8,893         8,873        8,340
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FINANCIAL RATIOS (%)
Compensation and benefits/net revenues                51.0         51.0         50.7         50.7         50.7
Pretax operating margin (excluding special charge)    27.8         33.5         30.5         25.6         24.2
Pretax operating margin                               26.0         33.5         30.5         25.6         24.2
Effective tax rate (excluding special charge)         26.3         29.0         28.0         30.0         30.9
Effective tax rate                                    25.0         29.0         28.0         30.0         30.9
Return on average common equity (excluding special
    charge and redeemable preferred dividend)         17.5         27.4         21.8         16.3         17.0
Return on average common equity                       15.9         26.6         20.8         15.2         15.6
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


</TABLE>

(a) Matched book represents "securities purchased under agreements to resell"
    ("reverse repos") to the extent that such balance is less than "securities
    sold under agreements to repurchase" ("repos") as of the statement of
    financial condition date. Several nationally recognized rating agencies
    consider such reverse repos to be a proxy for matched book assets when
    evaluating the Company's capital strength and financial ratios. Such
    agencies consider matched book assets to have a low risk profile and exclude
    such amounts in the calculation of leverage (total assets divided by total
    stockholders' equity and trust preferred securities). Although there are
    other assets with similar risk characteristics on the Company's Consolidated
    Statement of Financial Condition, the exclusion of reverse repos from total
    assets in this calculation reflects the fact that these assets are matched
    against liabilities of a similar nature, and therefore require minimal
    amounts of capital support. Accordingly, the Company believes the ratio of
    total assets excluding matched book to total stockholders' equity and trust
    preferred securities to be a more meaningful measure of the Company's
    leverage.

(b) Long-term debt includes senior notes and subordinated indebtedness.

(c) Total capital includes long-term debt, stockholders' equity and preferred
    securities subject to mandatory redemption. (d) All share and per share data
    have been restated for the two-for-one common stock split effective October
    2000.

                                       94

<PAGE>

[PAGE OMITTED]




















                                       95

<PAGE>

OTHER STOCKHOLDER INFORMATION

COMMON STOCK

Ticker Symbol:  LEH
The common stock of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. is listed on the New York
Stock Exchange and on the Pacific Exchange. As of January 31, 2002, there were
23,072 holders of record of the Company's common stock. On January 31, 2002, the
last reported sales price of Lehman Brothers' common stock was $64.77.

ANNUAL MEETING

Lehman Brothers' annual meeting of stockholders will be held on Tuesday, April
9, 2002 at 10:30 a.m. at 399 Park Avenue, 12th Floor Auditorium, New York, New
York 10022.

DIVIDENDS

Effective January 2002, Lehman Brothers' Board of Directors increased the fiscal
2002 dividend rate to $0.36 per common share from an annual dividend rate of
$0.28 per share in fiscal 2001. Dividends on the Company's common stock are
generally payable, following declaration by the Board of Directors, on the last
business day of February, May, August and November.

REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENT FOR COMMON STOCK

Questions regarding dividends, transfer requirements, lost certificates, changes
of address, direct deposit of dividends, the direct purchase and dividend
reinvestment plan, or other inquiries should be directed to:

The Bank of New York                       E-mail: shareowner-svcs@bankofny.com
Shareholders Services Department           Website: http://www.stockbny.com
P.O. Box 11258
Church Street Station
New York, New York 10286-1258
Telephone:    (800) 824-5707 (U.S.)
              (610) 312-5303 (non-U.S.)

DIRECT PURCHASE AND DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN

Lehman Brothers' Direct Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plan provides both
existing stockholders and first-time investors with an alternative means of
purchasing the Company's stock. The plan has no minimum stock ownership
requirements for eligibility and enrollment. Plan participants may reinvest all
or a portion of cash dividends and/or make optional cash purchases up to a
maximum of $175,000 per year without incurring commissions or service charges.
Additional information and enrollment forms can be obtained from the Company's
Transfer Agent listed above.

ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K

Lehman Brothers will make available upon request, without charge, copies of this
Annual Report and the Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission. Requests may be directed to:

Jeffrey A. Welikson
Corporate Secretary
399 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10022
Telephone: (212) 526-0858


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>



INDEPENDENT AUDITORS                INVESTOR RELATIONS                 MEDIA RELATIONS  WEBSITE ADDRESS
<S>                                <C>                                <C>
Ernst & Young LLP                   (212) 526-8381                     (212) 526-4379    http://www.lehman.com
787 Seventh Avenue
New York, New York 10019
Telephone: (212) 773-3000

</TABLE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCK
                                        Three months ended                                  Three months ended
                                                      2001                                                2000
           Nov. 30      Aug. 31       May 31       Feb. 28      Nov. 30      Aug. 31       May 31      Feb. 29
<S>        <C>         <C>           <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>

High        $71.93       $78.26       $82.25        $85.72       $80.00       $72.51       $51.72       $47.50
Low         $46.64       $63.90       $55.35        $51.13       $49.50       $40.81       $36.25       $31.06

</TABLE>









                                       96

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>10
<FILENAME>a2071673zex-21.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 21
<TEXT>
<Page>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 21

                     LIST OF THE REGISTRANT'S SUBSIDIARIES

    PURSUANT TO ITEM 601(B)(21)(ii) OF REGULATION S-K, CERTAIN SUBSIDIARIES OF
THE REGISTRANT HAVE BEEN OMITTED WHICH, CONSIDERED IN THE AGGREGATE AS A SINGLE
SUBSIDIARY, WOULD NOT CONSTITUTE A SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARY (AS DEFINED IN
RULE 1-02(W) OF REGULATION S-X) AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 2001.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              JURISDICTION OF
COMPANY                                                        INCORPORATION
- -------                                                       ---------------
<S>                                                           <C>
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc................................  Delaware
        Banque Lehman Brothers S.A..........................  France
        DA Group Holdings Inc...............................  Delaware
        LBAC Holdings I Inc.................................  Delaware
                Lehman Brothers Asia Capital Company........  Hong Kong
        LBCCA Holdings I Inc................................  Delaware
                Falcon Holdings I LLC.......................  Delaware
                        Falcon Holdings II Inc..............  Cayman Islands
                                Global Thai Property Fund...  Thailand
                Lehman Brothers Asia Capital Company........  Hong Kong
                Lehman Brothers Commercial Corporation Asia
                   Limited..................................  Hong Kong
        LBCCA Holdings II Inc...............................  Delaware
                Falcon Holdings I LLC.......................  Delaware
                        Falcon Holdings II Inc..............  Cayman Islands
                                Global Thai Property Fund...  Thailand
                Lehman Brothers Commercial Corporation Asia
                   Limited..................................  Hong Kong
        Lehman ALI Inc......................................  Delaware
                Lehman CMBS Funding Inc.....................  Delaware
                LUBS Inc....................................  Delaware
                Property Asset Management Inc...............  Delaware
                Lehman Syndicated Loan Funding Inc..........  Delaware
        Lehman Brothers AIM Holding LLC.....................  Delaware
                Lehman Brothers Alternative Investment
                   Management LLC...........................  Delaware
        Lehman Brothers Bancorp Inc.........................  Delaware
                Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB...................  Delaware
        Lehman Brothers Canada Inc..........................  Canada
        Lehman Brothers Commercial Corporation..............  Delaware
        Lehman Brothers Finance S.A.........................  Switzerland
        Lehman Brothers Futures Asia Limited................  Hong Kong
        Lehman Brothers Global Asset Management Inc.........  Delaware
                Lehman Brothers Futures Asset Management
                   Corp.....................................  Delaware
        Lehman Brothers Inc.................................  Delaware
                Lehman Brothers Asia Holdings Limited.......  Hong Kong
                        Lehman Brothers Asia Limited........  Hong Kong
                        Lehman Brothers Finance Limited.....  Hong Kong
                                Lehman Brothers Nominees
                                   (H.K.) Limited...........  Hong Kong
                                        Lehman Brothers
                                           Securities Asia
                                           Limited..........  Hong Kong
                        Lehman Brothers Futures Asia
                           Limited..........................  Hong Kong
                        Lehman Brothers Nominees (H.K.)
                           Limited..........................  Hong Kong
                        Lehman Brothers Pte Ltd.............  Singapore
                        Lehman Brothers Securities Asia
                           Limited..........................  Hong Kong
                Lehman Brothers Asia Limited................  Hong Kong
                Lehman Brothers Derivative Products Inc.....  Delaware
                Lehman Brothers Financial Products Inc......  Delaware
                Lehman Brothers Futures Asia Limited........  Hong Kong
                Lehman Brothers Investment Holding Company
                   Inc......................................  Delaware
                Lehman Brothers Nominees (H.K.) Limited.....  Hong Kong
                Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc.......  Delaware
</Table>

<Page>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              JURISDICTION OF
COMPANY                                                        INCORPORATION
- -------                                                       ---------------
<S>                                                           <C>
                Lehman Commercial Paper Inc.................  New York
                        LCPI Properties Inc.................  New Jersey
                                LW-LP Inc...................  Delaware
                        Lehman CMO Inc......................  Maryland
                        Lehman ABS Corporation..............  Delaware
                                Lehman Asset Backed Caps
                                   Inc......................  Delaware
                        Lehman Pass-Through Securities
                           Inc..............................  Delaware
                        Lehman Structured Securities
                           Corp.............................  Delaware
                        Lehman Syndicated Loan Inc..........  Delaware
                        Structured Asset Securities
                           Corporation......................  Delaware
                LB I Group Inc..............................  Delaware
                        DL Mortgage Corp....................  Delaware
                        Lehman Insurance Company............  Arizona
                        Lehman VIP Holdings Inc.............  Delaware
                RIBCO SPC, Inc..............................  Delaware
                        RIBCO LLC...........................  Delaware
        Lehman Brothers Insurance Agency L.L.C..............  Delaware
        Lehman Brothers International S.A...................  Spain
        Lehman Brothers International SIM SpA...............  Italy
        Lehman Brothers Investments Pte Limited.............  Singapore
        Lehman Brothers Japan Inc...........................  Cayman Islands
        Lehman Brothers (Luxembourg) S.A....................  Luxembourg
        Lehman Brothers Private Equity Advisers L.L.C.......  Delaware
        Lehman Brothers Realty Corp.........................  Delaware
        Lehman Brothers U.K. Holdings (Delaware) Inc........  Delaware
                Lehman Brothers Spain Holdings Limited......  United Kingdom
                        Lehman Brothers Luxembourg
                           Investments Sarl.................  Luxembourg
                                Lehman Brothers U.K.
                                   Holdings Ltd.............  United Kingdom
                                        Lehman Brothers
                                           Holdings Plc.....  United Kingdom
                                                Lehman
                                                   Brothers
                                               International
                                                  (Europe)..  United Kingdom
                                                Lehman
                                                   Brothers
                                                   Europe
                                                  Limited...  United Kingdom
                Lehman Brothers Treasury Co. B.V............  The Netherlands
                Lehman Brothers Capital GmbH, Co............  Germany
        Lehman Brothers Verwaltungs-und
        Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH........................  Germany
                Lehman Brothers Bankhaus
                   Aktiengesellschaft.......................  Germany
        Lehman Re Ltd.......................................  Bermuda
        Lehman Risk Advisors Inc............................  Delaware
        Lehman Structured Assets Inc........................  Delaware
</Table>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>11
<FILENAME>a2071673zex-23.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23
<TEXT>
<Page>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 23

                        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

    We consent to the incorporation by reference in this 2001 Annual Report on
Form 10-K of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (the "Company") of our report dated
January 4, 2002, included in the 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders of the
Company.

    Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of the Company
listed in Item 14(a). This schedule is the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In
our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when considered
in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

    We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements and Post Effective Amendments of the Company on Form S-3 File Nos.
33-53651, 33-56615, 33-62085, 33-65674, 333-14791, 333-44771, 333-50197,
333-75723, 333-60474 and 333-61878 and on Form S-8 File Nos. 33-53923,
333-07875, 333-57239 and 333-68247 and in the related Prospectuses, of our
report dated January 4, 2002, with respect to the consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedule of the Company included or
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
November 30, 2001.

                                          ERNST & YOUNG LLP

New York, New York
February 28, 2002

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>12
<FILENAME>a2071673zex-24.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 24
<TEXT>
<Page>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 24

    KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears
below constitutes and appoints Thomas A. Russo, Joseph Polizzotto and Jeffrey A.
Welikson and each of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and
agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and
in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., for the fiscal year
ended November 30, 2001, and any and all amendments thereto, and to file the
same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith,
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do
and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done, as
fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person,
hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
any of them, or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be
done by virtue hereof.

Dated: As of February 28, 2002

<Table>
<Caption>
                     SIGNATURES                                             TITLE
                     ----------                                             -----
<C>                                                     <S>

              /s/ RICHARD S. FULD, JR.                  Chief Executive Officer and
     -------------------------------------------          Chairman of the Board of Directors
                Richard S. Fuld, Jr.                      (principal executive officer)

                 /s/ DAVID GOLDFARB                     Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice
     -------------------------------------------          President
                   David Goldfarb                         (principal financial and accounting officer)

               /s/ MICHAEL L. AINSLIE
     -------------------------------------------        Director
                 Michael L. Ainslie

                  /s/ JOHN F. AKERS
     -------------------------------------------        Director
                    John F. Akers

                /s/ ROGER S. BERLIND
     -------------------------------------------        Director
                  Roger S. Berlind

              /s/ THOMAS H. CRUIKSHANK
     -------------------------------------------        Director
                Thomas H. Cruikshank

                  /s/ HENRY KAUFMAN
     -------------------------------------------        Director
                    Henry Kaufman

                /s/ JOHN D. MACOMBER
     -------------------------------------------        Director
                  John D. Macomber

                  /s/ DINA MERRILL
     -------------------------------------------        Director
                    Dina Merrill
</Table>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
