<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.2
<SEQUENCE>2
<FILENAME>v69729ex3-2.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 3.2
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                     Exhibit 3.2

                              ARTICLES OF AMENDMENT

                                     TO THE

                       RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION

                                       OF

                             WASHINGTON MUTUAL, INC.

        Pursuant to the provisions of RCW 23B.10 of the Washington Business
Corporation Act, Washington Mutual, Inc., a Washington corporation (the
"Corporation") hereby adopts the following articles of amendment to its restated
articles of incorporation.

        FIRST:  The name of the Corporation is Washington Mutual, Inc.

        SECOND: The Corporation hereby creates, from the 10,000,000 shares of
preferred stock, no par value per share, authorized pursuant to Article II of
the restated articles of incorporation of the Corporation, a series of preferred
stock and hereby fixes the designation, powers, preferences, limitations, and
relative rights of the shares of such series as follows:

        Section 1. DESIGNATION, PAR VALUE AND AMOUNT. The shares of such series
shall be designated as "Series RP Preferred Stock" (hereinafter referred to as
"SERIES RP PREFERRED STOCK"), the shares of such series shall be with par value
of $.01 per share, and the number of shares constituting such series shall be
700,000; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that, if more than a total of 700,000 shares of
Series RP Preferred Stock shall be issuable upon the exercise of Rights (the
"Rights") issued pursuant to the Rights Agreement, dated as of December 20,
2000, between the Corporation and Mellon Investor Services, L.L.C., as Rights
Agent (as amended from time to time, the "RIGHTS AGREEMENT"), the Board of
Directors of the Corporation shall direct by resolution or resolutions that a
certificate be properly executed, acknowledged and filed providing for the total
number of shares of Series RP Preferred Stock authorized to be issued to be
increased (to the extent that the Articles of Incorporation then permits) to the
largest number of whole shares (rounded up to the nearest whole number) issuable
upon exercise of the Rights.

        Section 2. DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS.

               2.1 Subject to the prior and superior rights of the holders of
any shares of any series of Preferred Stock ranking prior and superior to the
shares of Series RP Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of
shares of Series RP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and
if declared by the Board of Directors out of assets legally available for the
purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the first business day of March,
June, September and December in each year (each such date being referred to
herein as a "QUARTERLY DIVIDEND PAYMENT DATE"), commencing on the first
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction
of a share of Series RP Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the
nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $1.00 or (b) subject to the provision



                                       1
<PAGE>   2
for adjustment set forth in Section 6.1, 1,000 times the aggregate per share
amount of all cash dividends, and 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount
(payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions other than a
dividend payable in shares of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the
Corporation (the "COMMON STOCK") or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of
Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock
since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with
respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance
of any share or fraction of a share of Series RP Preferred Stock.

               2.2 The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on
the Series RP Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2.1 above immediately after
it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a
dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); PROVIDED THAT, in the event no
dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the
period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $1.00 per share on the Series RP
Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly
Dividend Payment Date.

               2.3 Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on
outstanding shares of Series RP Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend
Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares of Series RP
Preferred Stock, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record
date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on
such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or
unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after
the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series RP
Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall
begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the
shares of Series RP Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of
such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated
pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time
outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination
of holders of shares of Series RP Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of
a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be not more
than 30 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.

        Section 3. VOTING RIGHTS. The holders of shares of Series RP Preferred
Stock shall have the following voting rights:


                3.1 Except as provided in Section 3.3 and subject to the
provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series RP
Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 1,000 votes on all matters
submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation.

                3.2 Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, the holders
of shares of Series RP Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock
shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of
stockholders of the Corporation.

                                       2
<PAGE>   3

                3.3 The following additional provisions shall apply with respect
to the voting of shares of Series RP Preferred Stock:

                    3.3.1 If, on the date used to determine stockholders of
record for any meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, a default
in preference dividends (as defined in Section 3.3.5 below) on the Series RP
Preferred Stock shall exist, the holders of the Series RP Preferred Stock shall
have the right, voting as a class as described in Section 3.3.2 below, to elect
two directors (in addition to the directors elected by holders of Common Stock
of the Corporation). Such right may be exercised (a) at any meeting of
stockholders for the election of directors or (b) at a meeting of the holders of
shares of Voting Preferred Stock (as hereinafter defined), called for the
purpose in accordance with the Bylaws of the Corporation, until all such
cumulative dividends (referred to above) shall have been paid in full or until
non-cumulative dividends have been paid regularly for at least one year.

                    3.3.2 The right of the holders of Series RP Preferred
Stock to elect two directors, as described above, shall be exercised as a class
concurrently with the rights of holders of any other series of Preferred Stock
upon which voting rights to elect such directors have been conferred and are
then exercisable. The Series RP Preferred Stock and any additional series of
Preferred Stock that the Corporation may issue and that may provide for the
right to vote with the foregoing series of Preferred Stock are collectively
referred to herein as "VOTING PREFERRED STOCK."

                    3.3.3 Each director elected by the holders of shares of
Voting Preferred Stock shall be referred to herein as a "PREFERRED DIRECTOR." A
Preferred Director shall continue to serve as such for a term of one year,
except that upon any termination of the right of all holders of Voting Preferred
Stock to vote as a class for Preferred Directors, the term of office of
Preferred Directors then serving shall terminate. Any Preferred Director may be
removed by, and shall not be removed except by, the vote of the holders of
record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Voting Preferred Stock then
entitled to vote for the election of directors, present (in person or by proxy)
and voting together as a single class (a) at a meeting of the stockholders, or
(b) at a meeting of the holders of shares of such Voting Preferred Stock, called
for the purpose in accordance with the Bylaws of the Corporation.

                    3.3.4 So long as a default in any preference dividends of
the Series RP Preferred Stock shall exist or the holders of any other series of
Voting Preferred Stock shall be entitled to elect Preferred Directors, (a) any
vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director may be filled (except as provided
in the following clause (b)) by an instrument in writing signed by the remaining
Preferred Director and filed with the Corporation and (b) in the case of the
removal of any Preferred Director, the vacancy may be filled by the vote or
written consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Voting
Preferred Stock then entitled to vote for the election of directors, present (in
person or by proxy) and voting together as a single class, at such time as the
removal shall be effected. Each director appointed as aforesaid by the remaining
Preferred Director shall be deemed, for all purposes hereof, to be a Preferred
Director. Whenever (x) no default in preference dividends on the Series RP
Preferred Stock shall exist and (y) the holders of other series of Voting
Preferred Stock shall no longer be entitled to elect such Preferred Directors,
then the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the
Corporation shall be reduced by two.



                                       3
<PAGE>   4

                    3.3.5  For purposes hereof, a "DEFAULT IN PREFERENCE
DIVIDENDS" on the Series RP Preferred Stock shall be deemed to have occurred
whenever the amount of cumulative and unpaid dividends on the Series RP
Preferred Stock shall be equivalent to six full quarterly dividends or more
(whether or not consecutive), and, having so occurred, such default shall be
deemed to exist thereafter until, but only until, all cumulative dividends on
all shares of the Series RP Preferred Stock then outstanding shall have been
paid through the last Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or until, but only until,
non-cumulative dividends have been paid regularly for at least one year.

                3.4 Except as set forth herein (or as otherwise required by
applicable law), holders of Series RP Preferred Stock shall have no general or
special voting rights and their consent shall not be required for taking any
corporate action.

        Section 4.  CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS.

                4.1 Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or
distributions payable on the Series RP Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2
are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and
distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series RP Preferred Stock
outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:

                    4.1.1 declare or pay dividends, or make any other
distributions, on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series RP Preferred Stock;

                    4.1.2  declare or pay dividends, or make any other
distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to
dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series RP
Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series RP Preferred Stock
and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in
proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then
entitled;

                    4.1.3  redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for
consideration (except as provided in Section 4.1.4 below) shares of any stock
ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up) to the Series RP Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may
at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior
stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior
(either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the
Series RP Preferred Stock;

                    4.1.4  redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for
consideration any shares of Series RP Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock
ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up) with the Series RP Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a
purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of
Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of
Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other
relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall
determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the
respective series or classes.



                                       4
<PAGE>   5

                4.2  The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the
Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of
stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under Section 4.1,
purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.

        Section 5.  REACQUIRED SHARES. Any shares of Series RP Preferred Stock
purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever
shall be retired and canceled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such
shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of
Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock
subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the
Certificate of Incorporation, in any other Certificate of Amendment creating a
series of Preferred Stock or as otherwise required by law.

        Section 6.  LIQUIDATION, DISSOLUTION OR WINDING UP.

                6.1 Subject to the prior and superior rights of holders of any
shares of any series of Preferred Stock ranking prior and superior to the shares
of Series RP Preferred Stock with respect to rights upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up (voluntary or otherwise), no distribution shall be
made to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series RP Preferred Stock
unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series RP Preferred Stock shall
have received per share an amount equal to the greater of 1,000 times $200.00 or
1,000 times the payment made per share of Common Stock, plus an amount equal to
accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared,
to the date of such payment (the "SERIES RP LIQUIDATION PREFERENCE"). Following
the payment of the full amount of the Series RP Liquidation Preference, no
additional distributions shall be made to the holders of shares of Series RP
Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Common Stock
shall have received an amount per share (the "CAPITAL ADJUSTMENT") equal to the
quotient obtained by dividing (i) the Series RP Liquidation Preference by (ii)
1,000 (as appropriately adjusted as set forth in Section 6.3 to reflect such
events as stock splits, stock dividends and recapitalizations with respect to
the Common Stock) (such number in clause (ii) being hereafter referred to as the
"ADJUSTMENT NUMBER"). Following the payment of the full amount of the Series RP
Liquidation Preference and the Capital Adjustment in respect of all outstanding
shares of Series RP Preferred Stock and Common Stock, respectively, holders of
Series RP Preferred Stock and holders of Common Stock shall receive their
ratable and proportionate share of the remaining assets to be distributed in the
ratio of the Adjustment Number to 1 with respect to such Preferred Stock and
Common Stock, on a per share basis, respectively.

               6.2 In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets
available to permit payment in full of the Series RP Liquidation Preference and
the liquidation preferences of all other series of preferred stock, if any,
which rank on a parity with the Series RP Preferred Stock, then such remaining
assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of Series RP Preferred Stock
and the holders of such parity shares in proportion to their respective
liquidation preferences. In the event, however, that there are not sufficient
assets available to permit payment in full of the Capital Adjustment, then such
remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of Common Stock.


                                       5
<PAGE>   6

                6.3  In the event the Corporation shall (i) declare any dividend
on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the
outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a
smaller number of shares, then in each such case the Adjustment Number in effect
immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such Adjustment
Number by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common
Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is
the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to
such event.

        Section 7.  CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, ETC. In case the Corporation shall
enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which
the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or
securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case the shares of
Series RP Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or
changed in an amount per share equal to the Adjustment Number (as appropriately
adjusted as set forth in Section 6.3 to reflect such events as stock splits,
stock dividends and recapitalizations with respect to the Common Stock) times
the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property
(payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of
Common Stock is changed or exchanged.

        Section 8. NO REDEMPTION. The shares of Series RP Preferred Stock shall
not be redeemable.

        Section 9. RANKING. The Series RP Preferred Stock shall rank junior to
all other series of the Corporation's Preferred Stock as to the payment of
dividends and the distribution of assets, unless the terms of any such other
series shall provide otherwise.

        Section 10. AMENDMENT. The Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation
shall not be further amended in any manner that would materially alter or change
the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series RP Preferred Stock so as
to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of a
majority or more of the outstanding shares of Series RP Preferred Stock, voting
separately as a class.

        Section 11. FRACTIONAL SHARES. Series RP Preferred Stock may be issued
in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such
holder's fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends,
participate in distributions and have the benefit of all other rights of holders
of Series RP Preferred Stock.

        THIRD: These Articles of Amendment were duly adopted on December 19,
2000.

                                       6
<PAGE>   7
        FOURTH:These Articles of Amendment were duly adopted by the Board of
Directors, pursuant to the provisions of RCW 23B.06.020 at a meeting of the
Board on December 19, 2000. Shareholder approval is not required.

        [Remainder of page intentionally left blank.]




                                       7
<PAGE>   8
        Executed this __ day of ________, 2001.



                                    WASHINGTON MUTUAL, INC.


                                    By:
                                        --------------------------------
                                        William Lynch
                                        Secretary



                                       8

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
